# JDK-8284585: PushPromiseContinuation test fails intermittently in timeout

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8284585](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8284585) |
| **PR** | [#8518](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/8518) |
| **Author** | c-cleary |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-05-03 |
| **Merged** | 2022-05-16 |
| **审查天数** | 13 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +94 / -17 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | c-cleary, dfuch (2 人) |

## 描述

**Issue**
A recent fix for [JDK-8263031](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8263031), which addressed the httpclient being unable to properly process Http/2 PushPromise frames followed by continuations caused intermittent failures of the test. This was cause by two seperate problems. 

- Firstly, on the client side, `Http2Connection.processFrame` did not a check for whether or not a Continuation was to be expected early on in the method resulting in frames other than the expected Continuation Frame being incorrectly processed. In Http/2, when a Continuation Frame is expected, no other type of frame should be processed without a connection error of type PROTOCOL_ERROR being thrown.
- Secondly, `Http2TestConnection.handlePush` had no guards around response headers and data frames being sent before a continuation is sent which resulted in the intermittent nature of this timeout. 

**Proposed Solution**
The test class `OutgoingPushPromise` was modified to contain a list of Continuation Frames as required rather than the Continuations being scheduled to send in the test itself. This prevents the situation of unexpected frames being sent before a Continuation Frame was meant to arrive. 

In addition to the above, Http2Connection was modified to ensure that a connection error of type PROTOCOL_ERROR is thrown if a frame other than a Continuation arrives at the client unexpectedly.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 reviewer)

### Issue
 * [JDK-8284585](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8284585): PushPromiseContinuation test fails intermittently in timeout


### Reviewers
 * [Daniel Fuchs](https://openjdk.java.net/census#dfuchs) (@dfuch - **Reviewer**)


### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git<

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
