# JDK-8284435: Add dedicated filler objects for known dead Java heap areas

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8284435](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8284435) |
| **PR** | [#8156](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/8156) |
| **Author** | tschatzl |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-04-08 |
| **Merged** | 2022-05-02 |
| **审查天数** | 24 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | gc |
| **代码变更** | +111 / -2 (8 files) |
| **审查者** | iklam, tschatzl, walulyai (3 人) |

## 描述

Hi all,

  can I have reviews for this change that adds dedicated filler objects to the VM?

Currently, when formatting areas of dead objects all gcs use instances of j.l.Object and int-arrays.

This has the drawback of not being easily able to discern whether a given object is actually dead (and should never be referenced) or just a regular j.l.Object/int array.

This also makes enhanced error detection (any reference to such an object is an error - i.e. detecting references to such objects) and to skip potentially already unloaded classes when scanning areas of the heap below TAMS, G1 uses its prev bitmap.
Other collectors do not have this extra information at the moment, so they can't (and don't) do this kind of verification.

With [JDK-8210708](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8210708) the prev bitmap will effectively be removed in G1; G1 will format the dead areas with these filler objects to avoid coming across unloaded classes. This is fine wrt to normal operation, however, this looses the existing enhanced verification mentioned above.

This change proposes to add dedicated VM-internal filler objects, i.e. equivalents of j.l.Object and int-arrays.

This has the following benefits:

- keep this error detection (actually making it much simpler) and allowing similar verification for other collectors. (This change does not add this)

- this also makes it "easy" to detect references to filler objects in debugging tools - you only need to know the two klasses (or just get their friendly name) to see whether that reference may actually be valid (or refers to the inside such an object). References to these classes in the crash file may also allow the issue to be more clear.

This causes some minor changes to external behavior:

- logs/heap dumps now contain instances of these objects - which seems fine as previously they have just been reported as part of j.l.Object/int-arrays statistics. The VM spec also does not guarantee whether a p

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
