# JDK-8284632: runtime/Thread/StopAtExit.java possibly leaking memory again

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8284632](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8284632) |
| **PR** | [#8388](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/8388) |
| **Author** | dcubed-ojdk |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-04-25 |
| **Merged** | 2022-05-02 |
| **审查天数** | 7 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | runtime/threading |
| **代码变更** | +49 / -22 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | dholmes-ora, pchilano, robehn (3 人) |

## 描述

Throwing async exceptions at exiting JavaThreads can leak the exception:

1) HandshakeOperation::do_handshake() recognizes that the target thread
    might be terminated, but needs to do some cleanup when the operation
    is one that installs an async exception.

2) JavaThread::exit() uses a NoAsyncExceptionDeliveryMark to protect the
    VM's call out to Thread::exit() from async exceptions, but it needs to do
    some cleanup when those async exceptions cannot be delivered because
    the target thread has logically exited.

Also tweaked runtime/Thread/StopAtExit.java to alternate between throwing
RuntimeException and ThreadDeath. The async exception queuing code accepts
any exception, but it recognizes ThreadDeath as special. When a target thread
already has a queued async ThreadDeath exception, then another exception will
not be queued. So the test now throws RuntimeException on odd iterations and
ThreadDeath on even iterations and the target thread will have at most two async
exceptions queued up.

This fix has been tested with Mach5 Tier[1-7] (about to start a Tier8) and I also ran
my StressWrapper_StopAtExit.java test using {release, fastdebug, and slowdebug}
bits for 12 hours per config. No leaks detected. Previously, release bits would
fail with OutOfMemoryException in ~2 minutes with StressWrapper_StopAtExit.java.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8284632](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8284632): runtime/Thread/StopAtExit.java possibly leaking memory again


### Reviewers
 * [Patricio Chilano Mateo](https://openjdk.java.net/census#pchilanomate) (@pchilano - **Reviewer**)
 * [Robbin Ehn](https://openjdk.java.net/census#rehn) (@robehn - **Reviewer**)


### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
