# JDK-8284588: Remove GensrcCommonLangtools.gmk

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8284588](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8284588) |
| **PR** | [#8167](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/8167) |
| **Author** | magicus |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-04-08 |
| **Merged** | 2022-04-08 |
| **审查天数** | 0 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | infrastructure |
| **模块** | build |
| **代码变更** | +155 / -216 (20 files) |
| **审查者** | erikj79, magicus (2 人) |

## 描述

There's been unnecessary (near) duplication of functionality, and messy logic, in the langtools gensrc step, for a long time. (Basically since we got rid of the mercurial forest...)

This is a first attempt at cleaning this up. The file GensrcCommonLangtools.gmk is removed. This contained three pieces of functionality. 

* SetupVersionProperties was moved to GensrcCommonJdk.gmk (which was renamed to GensrcCommon.gmk). 
* PropertiesParser was only used in one place, and moved there. (jdk.compiler/Gensrc.gmk). It was also heavily rewritten to show more clearly what it actually is doing.
* SetupCompileProperties (from langtools) were replaced with calls to SetupCompileProperties (from GensrcCommon/"jdk"), which was modified slightly to accomodate for the differences. (Also the Java tool needed to be slightly modified to accept the same syntax as the JDK version of this tool.)

A reasonable follow-up is to research if the two SetupCompileProperties tools can be unified into one.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8284588](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8284588): Remove GensrcCommonLangtools.gmk


### Reviewers
 * [Erik Joelsson](https://openjdk.java.net/census#erikj) (@erikj79 - **Reviewer**) ⚠️ Review applies to 11ede464f4d67e7afe0d60f17a96a5a8e724fa85


### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk pull/8167/head:pull/8167` \
`$ git checkout pull/8167`

Update a local copy of the PR: \
`$ git checkout pull/8167` \
`$ git pull https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk pull/8167/head`

</details>
<details><summary>Using Skara CLI tools</summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git pr checkout 8167`

View PR using the GUI difftool: \
`

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
