# JDK-8258525: Some existing tests should use /nodynamiccopyright/ instead of the standard header

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8258525](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8258525) |
| **PR** | [#1732](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/1732) |
| **Author** | lgxbslgx |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2020-12-10 |
| **Merged** | 2020-12-30 |
| **审查天数** | 20 |
| **版本** | JDK 16 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +587 / -3335 (265 files) |
| **审查者** | jonathan-gibbons (1 人) |

## 描述

Hi all,

This is the background of this patch. According to the comments[1] written by Jonathan Gibbons during the review of JDK-8231622[2], I want to solve previous tests that used the bad style. I wrote a python script[3] to find the bad style tests. But it is not precise and complete.

[1] https://mail.openjdk.java.net/pipermail/compiler-dev/2020-December/015542.html
[2] https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/1626
[3] https://mail.openjdk.java.net/pipermail/compiler-dev/2020-December/015619.html

Currently, I write another python script that can accurately check all the bad style tests. The procedure of this script is shown below.
1.  Add a blank line at the head of the java source files(exclude the files contain `/nodynamiccopyright/`) in directory `test/langtools/tools/javac`. This step simulates the changes of the length in the legal header.
2. Run the test by using the command `make test CONF=linux-x86_64-server-release JOBS=4 TEST=test/langtools/tools/javac`. This step checks whether the tests can be comfortable to the changes of the length in legal header. If a test failed, it means the test style is bad and need to be revised.
3. Delete the blank line at the head of the java source files(exclude the files contain `/nodynamiccopyright/`) in directory `test/langtools/tools/javac`. This step recovers the modified files.

If all the tests are in good style,  all the tests in step 2 will passed. I use this script to test the branch `master` locally. 129 tests failed. I fixed them. Currently, I use this script to test the branch `test-copyright-clean` of this patch locally. All the tests passed.

I think this patch solves all the bad style tests if my script has no bugs and no new bad style tests were integrated to branch `master` recently.

The code of the new python script is shown below. You maybe need to revise the options `CONF=linux-x86_64-server-release` and `JOBS=4` when testing locally.

```
#!/usr/bin/python
import os


def runTest

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
