# JDK-8245543: Cgroups: Incorrect detection logic on some systems (still reproducible)

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8245543](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8245543) |
| **PR** | [#485](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/485) |
| **Author** | jerboaa |
| **组织** | Red Hat |
| **Created** | 2020-10-02 |
| **Merged** | 2020-10-09 |
| **审查天数** | 7 |
| **版本** | JDK 16 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs |
| **代码变更** | +96 / -6 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | bobvandette, bulasevich, jerboaa, shipilev (4 人) |

## 描述

An issue similar to [JDK-8239559](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8239559) has been discovered. On the affected system, `/proc/self/mountinfo`
contains a line such as this one:

```
35 26 0:26 / /sys/fs/cgroup/systemd rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime - cgroup systemd rw,name=systemd 
``` 

Note that `/proc/cgroups` looks like this:

```
#subsys_name	hierarchy	num_cgroups	enabled
cpuset	0	1	1
cpu	0	1	1
cpuacct	0	1	1
blkio	0	1	1
memory	0	1	1
devices	0	1	1
freezer	0	1	1
net_cls	0	1	1
perf_event	0	1	1
net_prio	0	1	1
hugetlb	0	1	1
pids	0	1	1
```

This is in fact a cgroups v1 system with systemd put into a separate namespace via FS type `cgroup`. That mountinfo line confuses the cgroups version detection heuristic. It only looked whether or not there is **any** entry in mountinfo of FS-type `cgroup` . That's wrong. A better heuristic would be looking at controllers we care about: `cpu`, `cpuacct`, `memory`, `cpuset` for hotspot and some more for the Java side. The proposed fix on the hotspot side is to set `any_cgroup_mounts_found` to true only if one of those controllers show up in mountinfo. Otherwise, we know it's cgroup v2 due to the zero hierarchy ids. The fix on the Java side is similar.

For the Java side the proposal is also to do the parsing of the cgroup files in the factory now (single pass of files). No longer in the version specific objects. In order to not regress here, I've added more tests.

**Testing**

 - [x] Linux x86_64 container tests on cgroup v1 (fastdebug)
 - [x] Linux x86_64 container tests on cgroup v2 (fastdebug)
 - [x] Added regression test which fails prior the patch and passes after
 - [x] Submit testing

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Testing

|     | Linux x64 | Windows x64 |


> **Backported to**: JDK 11u, JDK 8u

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
