# JDK-8372857: Improve debuggability of java/rmi/server/RemoteServer/AddrInUse.java test

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8372857](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8372857) |
| **PR** | [#28595](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/28595) |
| **Author** | jaikiran |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-12-02 |
| **Merged** | 2025-12-04 |
| **审查天数** | 2 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +37 / -59 (1 files) |
| **审查者** | msheppar, sendaoYan, stuart-marks (3 人) |

## 描述

Can I please get a review of this test-only change which improves the debuggability of the `java/rmi/server/RemoteServer/AddrInUse.java` test?

As noted in https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8213699, this test fails intermittently. The test code launches a Thread which does a `LocateRegistry.createRegistry(port)`. The test then expects that call to return within (an arbitrary) 10 seconds and if it doesn't, then it considers that the test has ended up reproducing a bug which would cause a hang in the implementation of `LocateRegistry.createRegistry(...)` method.

The 10 seconds is a reasonable timeout, I think even for busy hosts. But we have seen this test fail because the launched thread which does the  `LocateRegistry.createRegistry(...)` has either not started or completed within that period.

The changes in this PR updates that test code to remove the arbitrary 10 second timeout and instead just wait for the launched thread to complete. If the test doesn't complete within the configured jtreg test timeout (which by default is 2 minutes), then the jtreg and its failure handler infrastructure will gather the necessary thread dump and other states to help debug why the test timed out. This should help understand such intermittent failures in future (if it continues to fail).

I have triggered a tier testing of this change in our CI and will run a test repeat too.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8372857](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8372857): Improve debuggability of java/rmi/server/RemoteServer/AddrInUse.java test (**Sub-task** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Mark Sheppard](https://openjdk.org/census#msheppar) (@msheppar - **Reviewer*

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
