# JDK-8352064: AIX: now also able to build static-jdk image with a statically linked launcher

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8352064](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8352064) |
| **PR** | [#24062](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/24062) |
| **Author** | JoKern65 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-03-14 |
| **Merged** | 2025-03-24 |
| **审查天数** | 10 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | infrastructure |
| **模块** | build |
| **代码变更** | +65 / -5 (5 files) |
| **审查者** | JoKern65, MBaesken, TheRealMDoerr, erikj79, magicus (5 人) |

## 描述

After "JDK-8339480: Build static-jdk image with a statically linked launcher" AIX was not able to build the new target. Therefore with "JDK-8345590 AIX 'make all' fails after JDK-8339480" the new target was disabled again.

Now with this change we can enable the statically linked launcher target again.
There are 3 things to do.
1.	Modify `dladdr()`. Because this API does not exist on AIX it is implemented based on the `loadquery()` API. Unfortunately, this API does only return the name of the executable, but not its path. Beforehand this was no problem, because we asked for a loaded library, for which the API provides the path. But now we are asking for the executable itself.
2.	`dladdr()` is differently implemented three times in the openjdk code. In the static case I supressed now the usage of the additional modules containing version two and three. I know this shouldn't be the final version. Magnus mentioned that they have discussed from time to time to have a "basic JDK utility lib" that can be shared between hotspot and the JDK libraries. I think this is a good idea for the future, but far beyond the scope of this PR. The second best thing Magnus proposed is to only have the `dladdr()` functionality in Hotspot and then export it. Let's see how the community decides.
3.	Because we lack a linker flag like `whole-archive`, I had to force the export of all symbols by creating export files containing all symbols of the static libs. I introduced the new rule for the export file generation as "raw" make recipes. Magnus claimed to use the `SetupExecute`. Unfortunately I was not able to make it function. So I still have my "raw" solution in place, but my last try with `SetupExecute` as comment beneath. Help is welcome.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x]

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
