# JDK-8294715: Add IR checks to the reduction vectorization tests

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8294715](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8294715) |
| **PR** | [#12683](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/12683) |
| **Author** | danielogh |
| **Created** | 2023-02-21 |
| **Merged** | 2023-03-13 |
| **审查天数** | 20 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +623 / -685 (13 files) |
| **审查者** | eme64, fg1417, robcasloz (3 人) |

## 描述

We are lifting some loopopts/superword tests to use the IR framework, and add IR annotations to check that vector reductions take place on x86_64. This can be useful to prevent issues such as JDK-8300865.

Approach: lift the more general tests in loopopts/superword, mainly using matching rules in cpu/x86/x86.ad, but leave tests mostly unchanged otherwise. Some reductions are considered non-profitable (superword.cpp), so we might need to raise sse/avx value pre-conditions from what would be a strict reading of x86.ad (as noted by @eme64).

Testing: Local testing (x86_64) using UseSSE={2,3,4}, UseAVX={0,1,2,3}. Tested running all jtreg compiler tests. Tier1-tier5 runs to my knowledge never showed any compiler-related regression in other tests as a result from this work. GHA. Validation: all tests fail if we put unreasonable counts for the respective reduction node, such as counts = {IRNode.ADD_REDUCTION_VI, ">= 10000000"}).

Thanks @robcasloz  and @eme64 for advice.

Notes: ProdRed_Double does not vectorize (JDK-8300865). SumRed_Long does not vectorize on 32-bit, according to my reading of source, test on GHA and cross-compiled JDK on 32-bit Linux, so removed these platforms from @requires. Lifted the AbsNeg tests too but added no checks, as these are currently not run on x86_64.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8294715](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8294715): Add IR checks to the reduction vectorization tests


### Reviewers
 * [Roberto Castañeda Lozano](https://openjdk.org/census#rcastanedalo) (@robcasloz - **Reviewer**)
 * [Emanuel Peter](https://openjdk.org/census#epeter) (@eme64 - Committer)


### Reviewing
<details><summary>Usin

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
