# JDK-8379626: Refactor jaxp/functional/javax/xml tests to use JUnit

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8379626](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8379626) |
| **PR** | [#30165](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/30165) |
| **Author** | david-beaumont |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2026-03-10 |
| **Merged** | 2026-03-16 |
| **审查天数** | 6 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | xml |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +1681 / -2053 (48 files) |
| **审查者** | JoeWang-Java, david-beaumont, sbrannen (3 人) |

## 描述

Refactor tests in test/jaxp/javax/xml/jaxp/functional/javax/xml to use junit, along with ancillary utilities and a handful of related tests elsewhere.

The difficulty in these refactorings is the use of common utilities which themselves depend on TestNG classes, which are not available when running JUnit tests. Thus, several bits of functionality in utility classes (esp. classes in `jaxp.library`) has had to be re-implemented and inlined. This isn't terrible, since most of these were one line functions (or complex functions which could be replaced with one line).

Another complexity is accounting for the differences in test lifecycle management between TestNG and JUnit. A few classes needed to exploit the lifecycle and execution modes for single setup and single threaded operation.

Finally, the move from "expected exceptions" on the whole test method to using `assertThrows` threw up a lot of issues where tests weren't testing what they claimed (the exception was not being thrown by the final statement in the test). For these tests I've simplified them (rewriting them entirely in some cases) but they now test what they claim to be testing and are much clearer about where assertions are made.

However, because these tests affect the thrown exceptions in test method signatures, I ran a tidyup to remove all unused exceptions from method signatures (rather than spending hours manually removing the effected subset).

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8379626](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8379626): Refactor jaxp/functional/javax/xml tests to use JUnit (**Sub-task** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Volkan Yazici](https://openjdk.org/census#vyazici

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
