# JDK-8379798: Refactor remaining tests in javax/xml/jaxp/functional to JUnit

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8379798](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8379798) |
| **PR** | [#30201](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/30201) |
| **Author** | david-beaumont |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2026-03-11 |
| **Merged** | 2026-03-17 |
| **审查天数** | 6 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +1140 / -1130 (57 files) |
| **审查者** | JoeWang-Java, david-beaumont (2 人) |

## 描述

Refactor remaining tests in test/jaxp/javax/xml/jaxp/functional to use junit, along with ancillary utilities and a handful of related tests elsewhere.

The difficulty in these refactorings is the use of common utilities which themselves depend on TestNG classes, which are not available when running JUnit tests. Thus, several bits of functionality in utility classes (esp. classes in jaxp.library) has had to be re-implemented and inlined. This isn't terrible, since most of these were one line functions (or complex functions which could be replaced with one line).

The only exception to this are the handful of tests using `compareDocumentWithGold` which is too large to justify inlining.

```
test/jaxp/javax/xml/jaxp/functional/org/xml/sax/ptests/SAXParserNSTableTest.java
test/jaxp/javax/xml/jaxp/functional/test/auctionportal/UserController.java
test/jaxp/javax/xml/jaxp/functional/test/gaptest/Bug4693341.java
```

These tests can be converted at the end when the utility class itself can be refactored.

Another complexity is accounting for the differences in test lifecycle management between TestNG and JUnit. A few classes needed to exploit the lifecycle and execution modes for single setup and single threaded operation.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8379798](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8379798): Refactor remaining tests in javax/xml/jaxp/functional to JUnit (**Sub-task** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Joe Wang](https://openjdk.org/census#joehw) (@JoeWang-Java - **Reviewer**)

### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.org/jdk.git pull/30201/head:pu

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
