# JDK-8379557: Further optimize URL.toExternalForm

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8379557](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8379557) |
| **PR** | [#30151](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/30151) |
| **Author** | eirbjo |
| **组织** | Independent |
| **Created** | 2026-03-09 |
| **Merged** | 2026-03-18 |
| **审查天数** | 9 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.net |
| **代码变更** | +122 / -9 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | AlanBateman, dfuch, eirbjo (3 人) |

## 描述

This PR optimizes string concatenation in `URL::toExternalForm`. This method  is called by `URL:toString` and executes often enough to be noticed during startup / classloading profiling. It was previously optimized in JDK 10 via JDK-8193034, but we can do more.

Key observations:

* The current method concatenates concatenated strings. We can get away with less by flattening and concatenating once per call.
* JIT StringBuilder concat optimizations prefer consecutive append calls withot interleaving  code / conditionals 
* The current method does not take advantage of the fact that most URL components are optional and several are commonly not present. We can specialize for those cheaper common concatenations.

This PR reduces runtime with 60% or more, depending on present URL components. (Benchmark results in first comment). I also ran the benchmark with compilation excluded and found no regressions for the interpreter case.

Working on this PR revealed that current tests miss coverage for the case where a query or ref component is the empty string. Some new test cases are added to `Constructor.java`. Otherwise, `URL::toString` seems well tested by current tests.

Performance refactoring, `noreg-perf`.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8379557](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8379557): Further optimize URL.toExternalForm (**Enhancement** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Volkan Yazici](https://openjdk.org/census#vyazici) (@vy - **Reviewer**)

### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.org/jdk.git pull/30151/head:pull/30151` \
`$ git checkout pull/30151`

Upd

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
