# JDK-8314997: Missing optimization opportunities due to missing try_clean_mem_phi() calls

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8314997](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8314997) |
| **PR** | [#15445](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/15445) |
| **Author** | chhagedorn |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-08-28 |
| **Merged** | 2023-09-04 |
| **审查天数** | 7 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +230 / -58 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | TobiHartmann, chhagedorn, rwestrel, vnkozlov (4 人) |

## 描述

While working on a Valhalla bug, I've noticed that we sometimes miss `RegionNode::try_clean_mem_phi()` calls to remove a useless diamond
```
     If
True    False
   Region
```
with only a single memory phi. This blocks further optimizations like converting a loop into a counted one. The code in Valhalla looks slightly different but the problem is also reproducible in mainline.

**Problem**

In the test case, a region is transformed in IGVN such that it merges a diamond without any dependencies on both paths. The region has two phis. One of them is a memory phi which could be transformed by `RegionNode::try_clean_mem_phi()`. But when processing the region with its two phis in IGVN, we do not optimize the memory phi away because `has_unique_phi()` is false and we bail out:
https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/blob/725ec0ce1b463b21cd4c5287cf4ccbee53ec7349/src/hotspot/share/opto/cfgnode.cpp#L450-L471

Later in IGVN, the second phi dies and we only have the single memory phi left. But the region will not be added to the IGVN worklist again to re-apply `try_clean_mem_phi()`. We therefore miss the removal of the diamond and we fail to apply further optimizations. In the test case, we fail to convert the loop into a counted loop.

**Proposed Fix**

The fix I propose is to try to apply `try_clean_mem_phi()` whenever a region is merging a diamond with the assumption that the transformation of a memory phi does not hurt when being applied without being able to remove the region with the diamond (because there are other phis left that cannot be removed). Another option would be to re-add the region to the IGVN worklist when the second last phi dies. But the first approach seems simpler and less invasive.

I've also applied some clean-ups and added an IR test.

Thanks,
Christian

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
