# JDK-8314694: Separate checked_cast from globalDefinitions.hpp

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8314694](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8314694) |
| **PR** | [#15377](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/15377) |
| **Author** | kimbarrett |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-08-22 |
| **Merged** | 2023-08-23 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +140 / -25 (83 files) |
| **审查者** | coleenp, sspitsyn, tstuefe (3 人) |

## 描述

Please review this change which moves checked_cast from globalDefinitions.hpp
to a separate file.  As part of this change we modify files that use
checked_cast to directly include that new file.  There are around 80 such
files, and that change constitutes the majority of the changed files and lines
in this PR.

This PR doesn't fix the definition of checked_cast (see JDK-8314258).  It just
moves the existing definition to a new file, in preparation for fixing it
later.  (I'm running tests on a fixed implementation.)

An alternative is to move checked_cast to a new file but have
globalDefinitions.hpp include that new file.  This would avoid touching the
include lists of currently using files.  It seems to me better to actually
separate it.

Fortunately, there was only one copyright update needed. Most of the uses were
added recently as part of addressing -Wconversion warnings, so those files
have already had copyright updates recently.

The other change was to move pointer_delta_as_int next to the related
pointer_delta, and change it to use a direct assert and static_cast, rather
than checked_cast.

With the exception of the simple change to pointer_delta_as_int the changes
in this PR are very simple and almost mechanical.  To find the files needing
an additional include and to demonstrate completing that task, I applied this
command to the hotspot directory:

```
egrep -r --files-with-matches --exclude-dir=.git " checked_cast<" . | \
  xargs egrep --files-without-match "utilities/checkedCast\.hpp"
```

So perhaps this change is trivial, despite the number of files.

Testing:
mach5 tier1

/labels hotspot

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to a

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
