# JDK-8285790: AArch64: Merge C2 NEON and SVE matching rules

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8285790](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8285790) |
| **PR** | [#9346](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/9346) |
| **Author** | shqking |
| **组织** | Nvidia |
| **Created** | 2022-07-01 |
| **Merged** | 2022-08-17 |
| **审查天数** | 47 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +11741 / -18945 (19 files) |
| **审查者** | XiaohongGong, adinn, shqking, theRealAph (4 人) |

## 描述

**MOTIVATION**

This is a big refactoring patch of merging rules in aarch64_sve.ad and
aarch64_neon.ad. The motivation can also be found at [1].

Currently AArch64 has aarch64_sve.ad and aarch64_neon.ad to support SVE
and NEON codegen respectively. 1) For SVE rules we use vReg operand to
match VecA for an arbitrary length of vector type, when SVE is enabled;
2) For NEON rules we use vecX/vecD operands to match VecX/VecD for
128-bit/64-bit vectors, when SVE is not enabled.

This separation looked clean at the time of introducing SVE support.
However, there are two main drawbacks now.

**Drawback-1**: NEON (Advanced SIMD) is the mandatory feature on AArch64 and
SVE vector registers share the lower 128 bits with NEON registers. For
some cases, even when SVE is enabled, we still prefer to match NEON
rules and emit NEON instructions.

**Drawback-2**: With more and more vector rules added to support VectorAPI,
there are lots of rules in both two ad files with different predication
conditions, e.g., different values of UseSVE or vector type/size.

Examples can be found in [1]. These two drawbacks make the code less
maintainable and increase the libjvm.so code size.

**KEY UPDATES**

In this patch, we mainly do two things, using generic vReg to match all
NEON/SVE vector registers and merging NEON/SVE matching rules.

- Update-1: Use generic vReg to match all NEON/SVE vector registers

Two different approaches were considered, and we prefer to use generic
vector solution but keep VecA operand for all >128-bit vectors. See the
last slide in [1]. All the changes lie in the AArch64 backend.

1) Some helpers are updated in aarch64.ad to enable generic vector on
AArch64. See vector_ideal_reg(), pd_specialize_generic_vector_operand(),
is_reg2reg_move() and is_generic_vector().

2) Operand vecA is created to match VecA register, and vReg is updated
to match VecA/D/X registers dynamically.

With the introduction of generic vReg, difference

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
