# JDK-8285515: (dc) DatagramChannel.disconnect fails with "Invalid argument" on macOS 12.4 beta2

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8285515](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8285515) |
| **PR** | [#8445](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/8445) |
| **Author** | jaikiran |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-04-28 |
| **Merged** | 2022-04-29 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.io |
| **代码变更** | +19 / -11 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | AlanBateman, dfuch, jaikiran (3 人) |

## 描述

Can I please get a review of this change with proposes to address the issue reported in https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8285515?

We have noticed that in the latest 12.4 Beta2 version of MacOSX, the implementation of `DatagramChannelImpl.disconnect` fails with an unexpected error. 

Internally, the disconnect is implemented as a call to `connect` by passing it a "null" address as suggested in the documentation of `man connect`. In previous versions of MacOSX, this call used to return a `EADDRNOTAVAIL` errno and at the same time would correctly dissolve the connected association. The `EADDRNOTAVAIL` was then caught and intentionally ignored by the code in the JNI layer in `DatagramChannelImpl.disconnect0`.

In MacOSX 12.4 Beta 2 we are now seeing this `connect` call return `EINVAL`. This change in behaviour is noticed only for IPv4-mapped IPv6 addresses.

The `man connect` documentation on MacOSX states that even `disconnectx` can be used to disconnect datagram sockets. The commit here does that change to use `disconnectx` for MacOSX. Tests have been successfully run on some older Mac setups  to make sure this change passes there as well.

Currently `tier1`, `tier2` and `tier3` run is in progress across various OS.

No additional tests have been added for this change since the many existing (failing) tests already cover this use case.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8285515](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8285515): (dc) DatagramChannel.disconnect fails with "Invalid argument" on macOS 12.4 beta2


### Reviewers
 * [Daniel Fuchs](https://openjdk.java.net/census#dfuchs) (@dfuch - **Reviewer**)
 * [Alan Bateman](https://openjdk.java.net/census#alanb) (@AlanBateman - **Reviewer**)


### Reviewing
<detai

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
