# JDK-8300273: [IR framework] Handle <!-- safepoint while printing --> message instead of bailing out

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8300273](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8300273) |
| **PR** | [#12246](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/12246) |
| **Author** | chhagedorn |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-01-27 |
| **Merged** | 2023-02-02 |
| **审查天数** | 6 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | runtime/threading |
| **代码变更** | +1076 / -585 (28 files) |
| **审查者** | TobiHartmann, vnkozlov (2 人) |

## 描述

This is yet another attempt to fix the IR framework in cases where the `tty` lock is broken for a safepoint. This time, however, I've decided to not add another bailout but to just rewrite the `hotspot_pid*` parsing code to completely parse everything. This means that `<!-- safepoint while printing -->` messages are now skipped and then parsing continues for the reminder of a `PrintIdeal` output block.

#### When are `tty` locks broken?
This can only happen when dumping `PrintIdeal` for various compile phases. For `PrintOptoAssembly`, we have a `NoSafePointVerifier` object that ensures that we are not safepointing during the dump:
https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/blob/f7da09c34918eea434c82af22b1da1f2a5b35f35/src/hotspot/share/opto/output.cpp#L1814-L1822
The last interesting message printed by `LogCompilation` that needs to be parsed is the compilation queued message. This message is emitted in `CompileTask::log_task_queued()` where we also take the `tty` lock. Since we do not seem to safepoint during this method, I've added a `NoSafepointVerifier` object - just to be sure.

#### Implementation details
The idea is that we keep track of writer thread ids and currently parsed `PrintIdeal` blocks when parsing the `hotspot_pid*` file. If a new writer thread starts writing, it emits a `<writer thread='1683670'/>` message with the id. If that happens while we are still parsing a `PrintIdeal` block (i.e. not found the `</ideal>` end tag for the `<ideal ... />` opening tag), we store the currently parsed method (i.e. a `LoggedMethod` object) with its `WriterThread` in `WriterThread::saveLoggedMethod()`. When later parsing the same writer id again, we restore the method with `WriterThread::restoreLoggedMethod()` and continue parsing.

Each line of a `PrintIdeal` output block is stored within a `CompilePhaseBlock` object. This class makes sure to remove any `<!-- safepoint while printing -->` message (always at the end of a line with a line break) and to merge such a s

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
