# JDK-8344942: Template-Based Testing Framework

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8344942](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8344942) |
| **PR** | [#24217](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/24217) |
| **Author** | eme64 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-03-25 |
| **Merged** | 2025-06-04 |
| **审查天数** | 71 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +6722 / -0 (27 files) |
| **审查者** | chhagedorn, eme64, galderz (3 人) |

## 描述

**Goal**
We want to generate Java source code:
- Make it easy to generate variants of tests. E.g. for each offset, for each operator, for each type, etc.
- Enable the generation of domain specific fuzzers (e.g. random expressions and statements).

Note: with the Template Library draft I was already able to find a [list of bugs](https://bugs.openjdk.org/issues/?jql=labels%20%3D%20template-framework%20ORDER%20BY%20created%20DESC%2C%20summary%20DESC).

**How to get started**
When reviewing, please start by looking at:
https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/blob/d21a8aabaf3b191e851b6997c11bb30fcd0f942f/test/hotspot/jtreg/testlibrary_tests/template_framework/examples/TestSimple.java#L60-L76

We have a Template with two arguments. They are typed (Integer and String). We then apply the arguments `template.withArgs(42, "7")`, producing a `TemplateWithArgs`. This can then be `render`ed to a String. And then that can be compiled and executed with the CompileFramework.

Second, look at this advanced test:
https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/blob/77079807042fc5a3af04e0ccccad4ecd89e21cdb/test/hotspot/jtreg/testlibrary_tests/template_framework/examples/TestAdvanced.java#L102-L119

And then for a "tutorial", look at:
`test/hotspot/jtreg/testlibrary_tests/template_framework/examples/TestTutorial.java`

It shows these features:
- The `body` of a Template is essentially a list of `Token`s that are concatenated.
- Templates can be nested: a `TemplateWithArgs` is also a `Token`.
- We can use `#name` replacements to directly format values into the String. If we had proper String Templates in Java, we would not need this feature.
- We can use `$var` to make variable names unique: if we applied the same template twice, we would get variable collisions. `$var` is then replaced with e.g. `var_7` in one template use and `var_42` in the other template use.
- The use of `Hook`s to insert code into outer (earlier) code locations. This is useful, for example, to insert fields on deman

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
