# JDK-8306034: add support of virtual threads to JVMTI StopThread

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8306034](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8306034) |
| **PR** | [#13546](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/13546) |
| **Author** | sspitsyn |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-04-19 |
| **Merged** | 2023-05-11 |
| **审查天数** | 22 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | runtime/serviceability |
| **代码变更** | +517 / -24 (11 files) |
| **审查者** | AlanBateman, dholmes-ora, lmesnik, plummercj, sspitsyn (5 人) |

## 描述

This enhancement adds support of virtual threads to the JVMTI `StopThread` function.
In preview releases before this enhancement the StopThread returned the JVMTI_ERROR_UNSUPPORTED_OPERATION error code for virtual threads.

The `StopThread` supports sending an asynchronous exception to a virtual thread only if it is current or suspended at mounted state. For instance, a virtual thread can be suspended at a JVMTI event. If the virtual thread is not suspended and is not current then the `JVMTI_ERROR_THREAD_NOT_SUSPENDED` error code is returned. If the virtual thread was suspended at unmounted state then the `JVMTI_ERROR_OPAQUE_FRAME` error code is returned.

The `StopThread` has the following description for `JVMTI_ERROR_OPAQUE_FRAME` error code:
> The thread is a suspended virtual thread and the implementation 
> was unable to throw an asynchronous exception from this frame.

A couple of the `serviceability/jvmti/vthread` tests has been updated to adopt to new `StopThread` behavior.

The CSR is: https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8306434

Testing:
The mach5 tears 1-6 are in progress.
Preliminary test runs were good in general.
The JDB test `vmTestbase/nsk/jdb/kill/kill001/kill001.java` has been problem-listed and will be fixed by the corresponding debugger enhancement which is going to adopt JDWP/JDI specs to new behavior of the JVMTI `StopThread` related to virtual threads.

Also, two JCK JVMTI tests are failing in the tier-6 :
> vm/jvmti/StopThread/stop001/stop00103/stop00103.html
> vm/jvmti/StopThread/stop001/stop00103/stop00103a.html

These two tests will be excluded from the test runs by the JCK team and then adjusted to new `StopThread` behavior.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
-

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
