# JDK-8306471: Add virtual threads support to JDWP ThreadReference.Stop and JDI ThreadReference.stop()

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8306471](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8306471) |
| **PR** | [#13548](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/13548) |
| **Author** | plummercj |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-04-19 |
| **Merged** | 2023-05-12 |
| **审查天数** | 23 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-svc |
| **模块** | runtime/serviceability |
| **代码变更** | +360 / -82 (7 files) |
| **审查者** | AlanBateman, plummercj, sspitsyn, turbanoff (4 人) |

## 描述

[JDK-8306034](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8306034) (#13546) added some virtual thread support to JVMTI StopThread. This allows JDWP ThreadReference.Stop and JDI ThreadReference.stop() to have the same level support for virtual threads.

For your reference, here are the JVMTI spec changes that this pr is using as the basis for the JDWP and JDI spec updates.

https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/13546/files#diff-cab9797fde25f344784e4473778cd35bfd9e19ba36f82c11b1a0674636958339

Mostly this is a spec update for JDWP and JDI, but there are also some minor changes needed to the ThreadReference.stop() handling of JDWP errors, and throwing the appropriate exceptions. Also some minor cleanup in jdb. The debug agent doesn't need changes since JVMTI errors are just passed through as the corresponding JDWP errors, and the code for this is already in place. These errors are not new nor need any special handling.

Our existing testing for ThreadReference.stop() is fairly weak:

- nsk/jdb/kill/kill001, which tests stop() when the thread is suspended at a breakpoint. It will get problem listed by [JDK-8306034](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8306034). I have fixes for it already working and will push it separately.
- nsk/jdi/stop/stop001, which is problem listed and only tests when the thread is blocked in Object.wait()
- nsk/jdi/stop/stop002, which only tests that throwing an invalid exception fails properly

I decided to take stop002 and make it a more thorough test of ThreadReference.stop(). See the comment at the top of the test for a list of what is tested. As for reviewing this test, it's probably best to look at it as a completely new test rather than looking at diffs since so much has been changed and added.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
-

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
