# JDK-8306467: Fix nsk/jdb/kill/kill001 to work with new JVMTI StopThread support for virtual threads.

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8306467](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8306467) |
| **PR** | [#13967](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/13967) |
| **Author** | plummercj |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-05-12 |
| **Merged** | 2023-05-16 |
| **审查天数** | 4 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | core-svc |
| **模块** | runtime/serviceability |
| **代码变更** | +61 / -69 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | alexmenkov, plummercj, sspitsyn (3 人) |

## 描述

Currently kill001 assumes that JVMTI StopThread (via JDI ThreadReference.stop) is not supported for virtual threads. [JDK-8306034](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8306034) is adding support for StopThread on a virtual thread as long as it is suspended and mounted. This means, for example, it will work for virtual threads in the following conditions:
 - Debuggee in a loop and suspended
 - Debuggee blocked on a java monitor and suspended (because it is mounted when blocked)
 - Debuggee at a breakpoint and suspended

But will continue to not work in the following situations:
- Debuggee in a loop but not suspended
- Debuggee blocked on a java monitor and not suspended
- Debuggee suspended but unmounted, such as during a call the Thread.sleep()

kill001 suspends all threads when a breakpoint is hit in the main thread, and then does a "jdb kill" on each thread, which translate to `ThreadReference.stop()`. Si this is expected to work now since the additional threads are all blocked on a java monitor, and therefore mounted (and the breakpoint also suspended them).

Most of the changes involve undoing the virtual thread specific code that was added to the test as part of [JDK-8282385](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8282385). However, there is an additional issue that also needs fixing. The test relies on the fact that the async exception is normally not caught, and that jdb normally stops when an uncaught exception is thrown. With virtual threads there ends up being an exception handler in `java.lang.VirtualThread.run()`, resulting in jdb not stopping when the async exception is thrown. This is fixed by having the test issue a jdb "catch all <classname>" command for each async exception type that the test throws.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
-

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
