# JDK-8358690: Some initialization code asks for AOT cache status way too early

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8358690](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8358690) |
| **PR** | [#25763](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/25763) |
| **Author** | vnkozlov |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-06-11 |
| **Merged** | 2025-06-16 |
| **审查天数** | 5 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | runtime/cds |
| **代码变更** | +144 / -73 (14 files) |
| **审查者** | adinn, ashu-mehra, vnkozlov (3 人) |

## 描述

Thanks to @shipilev for catching the issue.

[JDK-8350209](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8350209) came with the bootstrapping problem by checking the AOT cache status way too early. Before full AOT cache init sequence runs, these checks would always reply that AOT cache is off. This causes initial stubs to never practically restored/dumped.

This does not affect JDK 25 because [JDK-8357514](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/commit/8184ce39a8a732352ee841fed09cae905d27643c) switched off AOT stubs generation.

We can't resolve bootstrap issue as it is because `initial_stubs_init()` is  called before `universe_init()` where AOT code cache is created.  I looked why it is required (based on comments) that `initial_stubs_init()` be called before `universe_init()`. And I found that we had a special stub during HotSpot development (1997) which was used for Vtable entries population when we run with -Xcomp (or whatever was equivalent back then). We still have reference to it in the comment: [stubRoutines.cpp#L185](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/blob/master/src/hotspot/share/runtime/stubRoutines.cpp#L185).

We don't have that code anymore. I moved `initial_stubs_init()` after `universe_init()` and `AOTCodeCache::init2()`. I added asserts into some initial stubs to check that they are not NULL when used. I ran from hs-tier1 to hs-tier6 + hs-tier10-rt.

The only issue I found is that `AOTCodeCache::init_early_stubs()` needs to be call separately after `initial_stubs_init()` instead of from `AOTCodeCache::init2()`. This solved bootstrap issue.

I also did some cleanup to match `leyden/premain` branch for easy merges.

Tested hs-tier1-6, hs-tier1-rt, stress, xcomp

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Com

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
