# JDK-8298848: C2: clone all of (CmpP (LoadKlass (AddP down at split if

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8298848](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8298848) |
| **PR** | [#11689](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/11689) |
| **Author** | rwestrel |
| **组织** | Red Hat |
| **Created** | 2022-12-15 |
| **Merged** | 2023-01-05 |
| **审查天数** | 21 |
| **版本** | JDK 20 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +452 / -116 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | TobiHartmann, chhagedorn, vnkozlov (3 人) |

## 描述

As suggested by Vladimir in:
https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/11666

Thus extract one for the fixes as a separate PR. The bug as described
in the above PR is:

The crash occurs because a` (If (Bool (CmpP (LoadKlass ..))))`
only has a single projection. It lost the other projection because of
a `CheckCastPP` that becomes `top`. Initially the pattern is, in pseudo
code:

```
if (obj.klass == some_class) {
  obj = CheckCastPP#1(obj);
}
```

`obj` itself is a `CheckCastPP` that's pinned at a dominating if. That
dominating if goes through split through phi. The `LoadKlass` for the
pseudo code above also has control set to the dominating if being
transformed. This result in:

```
if (phi1 == some_class) {
  obj = CheckCastPP#1(phi2);
}
```

with` phi1 = (Phi (LoadKlass obj) (LoadKlass obj))` and phi2 = (Phi obj obj)
with `obj = (CheckCastPP#2 obj')`

`PhiNode::Ideal()` transforms `phi2` into a new `CheckCastPP`:
`(CheckCastPP#3 obj' obj') `with control set to the region right above
the if in the pseudo code above. There happens to be another
`CheckCastPP` at the same control which casts obj' to a narrower
type. So the new `CheckCastPP#3` is replaced by that one (because of
`ConstraintCastNode::dominating_cast()`) and pseudo code becomes:

```
if (phi1 == some_class) {
  obj = CheckCastPP#1(CheckCastPP#4(obj'));
}
```

and then:

```
if (phi1 == some_class) {
  obj = top;
}
```

because the types of the 2 `CheckCastPP`s conflict. That would be ok if:

`phi1 == some_class`

would constant fold. It would if the test was:

`if (CheckCastPP#4(obj').klass == some_klass) {
`
but because of split if, the `(CmpP (LoadKlass ..))` and the
`CheckCastPP#1` ended up with 2 different object inputs that then were
transformed differently. The fix I propose is to have split if clone the entire:

`(Bool (CmpP (LoadKlass (AddP ..))))`

down the same way `(Bool (CmpP ..))` is cloned down. After split if, the
pseudo code bec

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
