# JDK-8280915: Better parallelization for AbstractSpliterator and IteratorSpliterator when size is unknown

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8280915](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8280915) |
| **PR** | [#7279](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/7279) |
| **Author** | amaembo |
| **Created** | 2022-01-29 |
| **Merged** | 2022-04-15 |
| **审查天数** | 76 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs |
| **代码变更** | +212 / -34 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | PaulSandoz (1 人) |

## 描述

See the bug description for details.

I propose a simple solution. Let's allow ArraySpliterator to be non-SIZED and report artificial estimatedSize(), much bigger than the real one. This will allow AbstractSpliterator and IteratorSpliterator to produce prefix whose size is comparable to Long.MAX_VALUE (say, starting with Long.MAX_VALUE/2), and this will enable further splitting of the prefix. This change will drastically improve parallel streaming for affected streams of size <= 1024 and significantly improve for streams of size 1025..20000. The cost is higher-grained splitting for huge streams of unknown size. This might add a minor overhead for such scenarios which, I believe, is completely tolerable.

No public API changes are necessary, sequential processing should not be affected, except an extra field in ArraySpliterator which increases a footprint by 8 bytes.

I added a simple test using an artificial collector to ensure that at least two non-empty parts are created when parallelizing Stream.iterate source. More testing ideas are welcome.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8280915](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8280915): Better parallelization for AbstractSpliterator and IteratorSpliterator when size is unknown


### Reviewers
 * [Paul Sandoz](https://openjdk.java.net/census#psandoz) (@PaulSandoz - **Reviewer**)


### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk pull/7279/head:pull/7279` \
`$ git checkout pull/7279`

Update a local copy of the PR: \
`$ git checkout pull/7279` \
`$ git pull https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk pull/7279/head`

</details>
<details><summary>Using Skara CLI tools</summary>

Checkout this PR lo

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
