# JDK-8297642: PhaseIdealLoop::only_has_infinite_loops must detect all loops that never lead to termination

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8297642](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8297642) |
| **PR** | [#11473](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/11473) |
| **Author** | eme64 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-12-02 |
| **Merged** | 2022-12-08 |
| **审查天数** | 6 |
| **版本** | JDK 20 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +175 / -31 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | TobiHartmann, rwestrel (2 人) |

## 描述

The bug was a regression-fix for [JDK-8294217](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8294217). The problem is only a not-quite-correct assert. But the problem is not limited to infinite loops, as the example below shows it can happen with reducible loops.

**Background:**
We have an assert that checks that `has_loops` is true when it should be. If we have `has_loops == false` even though there are loops, we will not perform loop-opts in `Compile::Optimize`.

https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/blob/8c472e481676ed0ef475c4989477d5714880c59e/src/hotspot/share/opto/loopnode.cpp#L4285-L4293

Generally, we want to verify, that if we just found loops (`_ltree_root->_child != NULL`) that `has_loops == true`.
There are a few cases where we do not care if we miss loop-opts:
- We only have infinite loops (`only_has_infinite_loops()`). Infinite loops never terminate anyway, so why make them faster? Plus, a loop is only infinite if it has no loop-exit other than a `NeverBranch` exit, even uncommon traps, loop-limit checks etc are exits. Thus, if a loop does anything interesting, it probably is not such a "true infinite loop". They can be more easily forced to occur by setting `-XX:PerMethodTrapLimit=0`.
- We have only exception edges.

Note that once we check the assert, we update `has_loops`. So if all loops disappeared, we avoid doing loop-opts henceforth.

**Current implementation of PhaseIdealLoop::only_has_infinite_loops**
https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/blob/8c472e481676ed0ef475c4989477d5714880c59e/src/hotspot/share/opto/loopnode.cpp#L4183-L4185

We check for loop exits, if there is one the loop should not be infinite.

**The Problem**

An infinte loop can have an inner loop, that subsequently loses its exit. It becomes its own infinite loop, and floats out of the outer loop. Where the outer loop enters into the former inner loop, we now have a loop-exit for the outer loop. The next time we run `build_loop_tree` and check the assert, it can fail, as `PhaseIdea


> **Backported to**: JDK 17u

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
