# JDK-8367656: Refactor Constantpool's operand array into two

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8367656](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8367656) |
| **PR** | [#27198](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/27198) |
| **Author** | johan-sjolen |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-09-10 |
| **Merged** | 2025-11-25 |
| **审查天数** | 76 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +613 / -459 (12 files) |
| **审查者** | coleenp, dholmes-ora, johan-sjolen, sspitsyn (4 人) |

## 描述

Hi,

This is a refactoring of the way that we store the Bootstrap method attribute in the ConstantPool class. We used to have a single `Array<u2>` which was divided into a section of `u4` offsets and a section which was the actual data. In this refactoring we make this split more clear, by actually allocating an `Array<u4>` to store the offsets in and an `Array<u2>` to store the data in. These arrays are then put into a `BSMAttributeEntries` class, which allows us to separate out the API from that of the rest of the `ConstantPool`.

We had multiple instances of the code knowing the layout of the operands array and using this to do 'clever' ways of copying and inserting data into it. See `ConstantPool::copy_operands` and `ConstantPool::resize_operands`. I felt like we could do things in a simpler way, so I added the `start_/end_extension` protocol and added the `InsertionIterator` for this. See `ClassFileParser::parse_classfile_bootstrap_methods_attribute` for how this works. I put several relevant definitions into the inline file in hopes of encouraging the compiler to optimize these appropriately.

For the Java SA code, I had to add a `U4Array` class. I also had to fix the vmstructs definitions, etc.

On the whole, while this code is a bit less terse, I think it's a good API improvement and the underlying implementation of splitting up the operands array is also an improvement.

Testing: Oracle Tier1-Tier5 has been run succesfully multiple times. Before integration, I will merge with master and run these tiers again.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8367656](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8367656): Refactor Constantpool's operand

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
