# JDK-8367709: GenShen: Dirty cards for objects that get promoted by safepoint that intervenes between allocation and stores

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8367709](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8367709) |
| **PR** | [#27832](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/27832) |
| **Author** | earthling-amzn |
| **组织** | Amazon |
| **Created** | 2025-10-15 |
| **Merged** | 2025-10-16 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | gc |
| **代码变更** | +25 / -14 (5 files) |
| **审查者** | earthling-amzn, ysramakrishna (2 人) |

## 描述

I believe this sequence of events can lead to the original assertion failing:
1. Shenandoah lowers the tenuring threshold to 1.
2. An object gets allocated on the slow path.
3. We come to a safepoint and run a degenerated cycle.
4. The object is evacuated during the degenerated cycle and has its age raised to 1.
5. The degenerated cycle is "upgraded" to a full GC.
6. The object is at the tenuring age and gets promoted by the full GC into an old region.
7. We leave the safepoint and the assertion fails because this "new" object is an old region.

However, there is still a risk that the card marking barriers have been elided for this object. Now that the object is in the old generation we must be sure that if it ends up storing any pointers to young, then these cards must be dirtied. The solution here is conservative in that it just dirties _all_ the cards for this object. We expect this condition to be rare and the card table will refine itself on subsequent GC cycles. Also, note that we will not scan the remembered set without coming to the `init-mark` safepoint, so it will see these dirty cards.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8367709](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8367709): GenShen: Dirty cards for objects that get promoted by safepoint that intervenes between allocation and stores (**Bug** - P3)


### Reviewers
 * [Y. Srinivas Ramakrishna](https://openjdk.org/census#ysr) (@ysramakrishna - **Reviewer**)

### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.org/jdk.git pull/27832/head:pull/27832` \
`$ git checkout pull/27832`

Update a local copy of the PR:

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
