# JDK-8331725: ubsan: pc may not always be the entry point for a VtableStub

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8331725](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8331725) |
| **PR** | [#19968](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/19968) |
| **Author** | xmas92 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-07-01 |
| **Merged** | 2024-07-10 |
| **审查天数** | 9 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +33 / -14 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | MBaesken, vnkozlov, xmas92 (3 人) |

## 描述

`VtableStub* VtableStubs::entry_point(address pc)` has multiple issues causing undefined behaviour. Most of it stems from the fact that the pc sent in may sometimes not be the entry point of a `VtableStub`. We check this by doing a lookup in a hash table, but to generate the hash we need to extract data from the `VtableStub`. The original implementation simply cast the address to a `*VtableStub` and called the member function getters. This caused both unaligned accesses and bad bool values, all symptoms of the fact that we reinterpret_cast the memory as a `VtableStub`.

This change will instead look at the raw bytes when generating the hash which neither suffers from unaligned access nor bad reinterpret_casts. 

My initial patch did not create an `enum class` to represent the boolean value but instead looked at the object representation of the `bool` field. However this suffers from the fact that the object representation of `false` is implementation defined. I assumed it to be all 0 bits. It was also required unfortunate extra logic to handle the cases when `sizeof(bool) != 1`. Alt patch: https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/commit/b20140f49983b1903f9038e4e47def792c4493ac

There may be some better name than `unsafe_hash`. Suggestions?

Verified that this patch resolves the UB.
Running testing.

Side note:
There is still an unaligned access issue on aarch64 because of the way we construct `VtableStub`. We align the chunk where we create the `VtableStub` so that the `<VtableStub address> + sizeof(VtableStub)` is aligned to the platforms code entry alignment. On all platforms but `aarch64`  `<VtableStub address> + sizeof(VtableStub) % pd_code_alignment == 0` implies `<VtableStub address>  % alignof(VtableStub) == 0`. 
https://github.com/xmas92/jdk/blob/beea5305b071820e2b128a55c5ca384caf470fdd/src/hotspot/share/code/vtableStubs.hpp#L168-L171

Also note that there are already assumptions in the JVM about the object representation of bool. On `x86` `MacroAssembl

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
