# JDK-8331185: Enable compiler memory limits in debug builds

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8331185](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8331185) |
| **PR** | [#18969](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18969) |
| **Author** | tstuefe |
| **组织** | Red Hat |
| **Created** | 2024-04-26 |
| **Merged** | 2024-05-08 |
| **审查天数** | 12 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler |
| **代码变更** | +154 / -51 (7 files) |
| **审查者** | ashu-mehra, vnkozlov (2 人) |

## 描述

See [1] for previous discussions.

We'd like to introduce a default memory limit for compilations in debug builds. That way, we can catch pathological compiler errors that have an unreasonably high per-compilation memory footprint early during testing.

The default limit affects all compilations, unless the method is subject to a memory limit set from command line. Meaning, `-XX:CompileCommand=MemLimit,...` overrules the default.

Examples:

This lowers the memlimit for j.l.String methods - all methods will have the default 1GB limit in a debug JVM. Only j.l.String will run with a 100M limit: `-XX:CompileCommand=MemLimit,java.lang.String::*,100m`

This disables the default memlimit globally: `-XX:CompileCommand=MemLimit,*.*,0`


---

The patch:

1) adds a debug-only default memory limit of **1GB** (as proposed by @vnkozlov). The limit action is "crash", meaning we will assert.
2) To test the mechanics, we now print out the memory limit for each compilation in the compilation cost record.
3) Adapted and extended tests

I also fixed up some copyrights that I overlooked last year when adding the compiler memory statistics this patch builds atop of.


Tested:

- manually on Mac m1 (debug and release)
- GHAs are running
- but Oracle will do more testing before this goes in

[1] https://mail.openjdk.org/pipermail/hotspot-compiler-dev/2024-April/074787.html

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8331185](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8331185): Enable compiler memory limits in debug builds (**Enhancement** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Ashutosh Mehra](https://openjdk.org/census#asmehra) (@ashu-mehra - Committer) ⚠️ Review applie

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
