# JDK-8216497: javadoc should auto-link to platform classes

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8216497](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8216497) |
| **PR** | [#171](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/171) |
| **Author** | hns |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2020-09-15 |
| **Merged** | 2020-10-07 |
| **审查天数** | 22 |
| **版本** | JDK 16 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | arch/x86 |
| **代码变更** | +1840 / -13 (51 files) |
| **审查者** | erikj79, hns, jonathan-gibbons (3 人) |

## 描述

This pull request is identical with the RFR previously sent for the Mercurial repository:

https://mail.openjdk.java.net/pipermail/javadoc-dev/2020-August/001796.html

I'm copy-pasting the comments from the original RFR below.

Most of the new code is added to the Extern class where it fits in quite nicely and can use the existing supporting code for setting up external links.

The default behaviour is to generate links to docs.oracle.com for released versions and download.java.net for prereleases. Platform documentation URLs can be configured using the new --link-platform-properties <url> option to provide a properties file with URLs pointing to to alternative locations. See the CSR linked above for more details on the new options.

The feature can be disabled using the --no-platform-link option, generating the same output as previously. 

One problem I had to solve was how to handle the transition from prerelease versions to final releases, since the location of the documentation changes in this transition. For obvious reasons we don’t want to make that switch via code change at a time shortly before release.

The way it is done is that we determine if the current javadoc instance is a prerelease version as indicated by the Version returned by BaseConfiguration#getDocletVersion(), and then check whether the release/source version of the current javadoc execution uses the same (latest) version. This means that that only the latest version will ever generate prerelease links (e.g. running current javadoc 16 with source version 15 will generate links to the final release documentation) but I think this is acceptable.

Another issue I spent some time getting right was tests. New releases require a new element-list resource*), so tests have to pick up new releases. On the other hand, we don’t want hundreds of tests to fail when a new release is added, ideally there should be one test  with a clear message. Because of this, when a release is encountered

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
