# JDK-8301997: Move method resolution information out of the cpCache

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8301997](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8301997) |
| **PR** | [#15455](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/15455) |
| **Author** | matias9927 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-08-28 |
| **Merged** | 2023-11-15 |
| **审查天数** | 79 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +2034 / -2745 (79 files) |
| **审查者** | adinn, coleenp, matias9927 (3 人) |

## 描述

The current structure used to store the resolution information for methods, ConstantPoolCacheEntry, is difficult to interpret due to its ambigious fields f1 and f2. This structure previously held information for fields, methods, and invokedynamic calls which were all encoded into f1 and f2. Currently this structure only handles method entries, but it remains obtuse and inconsistent with recent changes. 

This enhancement introduces a new data structure that stores the necessary resolution data in an intuitive an extensible manner. These resolved entries are stored in an array inside the constant pool cache in a very similar manner to invokedynamic entries in JDK-8301995.

Instances of ConstantPoolCache entry related to field resolution have been replaced with the new ResolvedMethodEntry, and ConstantPoolCacheEntry has been removed entirely. The class ResolvedMethodEntry holds resolution information for all types of invoke calls besides invokedynamic, and thus has fields that may be unused depending on the invoke code. 

To streamline the review, please consider these major areas that have been changed:
1. ResolvedMethodEntry class
2. Rewriter for initialization of the structure
3. cpCache for resolution
4. InterpreterRuntime, linkResolver, and templateTable
5. JVMCI
6. SA

Verified with tier 1-9 tests.

This change supports the following platforms: x86, aarch64, RISCV, PPC, S390

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8301997](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8301997): Move method resolution information out of the cpCache (**Sub-task** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Coleen Phillimore](https://openjdk.org/census#coleenp) (@col

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
