# JDK-8231640: (prop) Canonical property storage

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8231640](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8231640) |
| **PR** | [#5372](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/5372) |
| **Author** | jaikiran |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-09-04 |
| **Merged** | 2021-09-28 |
| **审查天数** | 24 |
| **版本** | JDK 18 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs |
| **代码变更** | +837 / -15 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | RogerRiggs, dfuch, jaikiran, magicus, rfscholte, stuart-marks, turbanoff (7 人) |

## 描述

The commit in this PR implements the proposal for enhancement that was discussed in the core-libs-dev mailing list recently[1], for https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8231640

At a high level - the `store()` APIs in `Properties` have been modified to now look for the `SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH` environment variable[2]. If that env variable is set, then instead of writing out the current date time as a date comment, the `store()` APIs instead will use the value set for this env variable to parse it to a `Date` and write out the string form of such a date. The implementation here uses the `d MMM yyyy HH:mm:ss 'GMT'` date format and `Locale.ROOT` to format and write out such a date. This should provide reproducibility whenever the `SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH` is set. Furthermore, intentionally, no changes in the date format of the "current date" have been done.

These  modified `store()` APIs work in the presence of the `SecurityManager` too. The caller is expected to have a read permission on the `SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH` environment variable. If the caller doesn't have that permission, then the implementation of these `store()` APIs will write out the "current date" and will ignore any value that has been set for the `SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH` env variable. This should allow for backward compatibility of existing applications, where, when they run under a `SecurityManager` and perhaps with an existing restrictive policy file, the presence of `SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH` shouldn't impact their calls to the `store()` APIs.

The modified `store()` APIs will also ignore any value for `SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH` that  cannot be parsed to an `long` value. In such cases, the `store()` APIs will write out the "current date" and ignore the value set for this environment variable. No exceptions will be thrown for such invalid values. This is an additional backward compatibility precaution to prevent any rogue value for `SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH` from breaking applications.

An additional change in the implementation

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
