# JDK-8323582: C2 SuperWord AlignVector: misaligned vector memory access with unaligned native memory

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8323582](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8323582) |
| **PR** | [#22016](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/22016) |
| **Author** | eme64 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-11-11 |
| **Merged** | 2025-02-27 |
| **审查天数** | 108 |
| **版本** | JDK 24 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +1061 / -123 (27 files) |
| **审查者** | eme64, rwestrel, vnkozlov (3 人) |

## 描述

Note: the approach with Predicates and Multiversioning prepares us well for Runtime Checks for Aliasing Analysis, see more below.

**Background**

With `-XX:+AlignVector`, all vector loads/stores must be aligned. We try to statically determine if we can always align the vectors. One condition is that the address `base` is already aligned. For arrays, we know that this always holds, because they are `ObjectAlignmentInBytes` aligned. But with native memory, the `base` is just some arbitrarily aligned pointer.

**Problem**

So far, we have just naively assumed that the `base` is always `ObjectAlignmentInBytes` aligned. But that does not hold for `native` memory segments: the `base` can also be unaligned. I had constructed such an example, and with `-XX:+AlignVector -XX:+VerifyAlignVector` this example hits the verification code.

```
MemorySegment nativeAligned = Arena.ofAuto().allocate(RANGE * 4 + 1);
MemorySegment nativeUnaligned = nativeAligned.asSlice(1);
test3(nativeUnaligned);
```

When compiling the test method, we assume that the `nativeUnaligned.address()` is aligned - but it is not!
```
    static void test3(MemorySegment ms) {
        for (int i = 0; i < RANGE; i++) {
            long adr = i * 4L;
            int v = ms.get(ELEMENT_LAYOUT, adr);
            ms.set(ELEMENT_LAYOUT, adr, (int)(v + 1));
        }
    }
```

**Solution: Runtime Checks - Predicate and Multiversioning**

Of course we could just forbid cases where we have a `native` base from vectorizing. But that would lead to regressions currently - in most cases we do get aligned `base`s, and we currently vectorize those. We cannot statically determine if the `base` is aligned, we need a runtime check.

I came up with 2 options where to place the runtime checks:
- A new "auto vectorization" Parse Predicate:
  - This only works when predicates are available.
  - If we fail the predicate, then we recompile without the predicate. That means we cannot add a check to

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
