# JDK-8204868: java/util/zip/ZipFile/TestCleaner.java still fails with "cleaner failed to clean zipfile."

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8204868](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8204868) |
| **PR** | [#23742](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/23742) |
| **Author** | jaikiran |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-02-24 |
| **Merged** | 2025-03-06 |
| **审查天数** | 10 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.io |
| **代码变更** | +33 / -23 (1 files) |
| **审查者** | LanceAndersen (1 人) |

## 描述

Can I please get a review of this test-only change which proposes to address an intermittent failure in the `test/jdk/java/util/zip/ZipFile/TestCleaner.java` test?

This test does operations on Inflater/Deflater/ZipFile and  closes those instances and then waits for GC to kick in. After wait for a second, it then checks that the underlying resources held by these instances have been cleaned (by the Cleaner).

Once in a while, we have noticed that this test fails because the resources haven't been cleaned. I suspect this is because within the (fixed) 1 second wait time, the Cleaner hasn't yet invoked the cleaning action for these instances.

The commit in this PR updates the test to run it in `othervm` so that the Cleaner actions aren't delayed by any other test or code that might have previously run on the `agentvm`. Furthermore, the test is also updated to the use the `ForceGC` test util which takes into account the jtreg test timeout factor for deciding how long to wait for the Cleaner to initiate the cleaning action. Our CI is configured with a timeout factor of 4, so with this change, instead of a fixed maximum 1 second wait time, the test will now wait a maximum of 4 seconds for the cleaner action to be invoked.

The test continues to pass with this change, even with a repeat execution of 50 runs.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8204868](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8204868): java/util/zip/ZipFile/TestCleaner.java still fails with "cleaner failed to clean zipfile." (**Bug** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Lance Andersen](https://openjdk.org/census#lancea) (@LanceAndersen - **Reviewer**)

### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>


> **Backported to**: JDK 17u, JDK 21u

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
