# JDK-8268406: Deallocate jmethodID native memory

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8268406](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8268406) |
| **PR** | [#25267](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/25267) |
| **Author** | coleenp |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-05-16 |
| **Merged** | 2025-06-27 |
| **审查天数** | 42 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | runtime/nmt |
| **代码变更** | +456 / -295 (16 files) |
| **审查者** | coleenp, dholmes-ora, fisk, sspitsyn, xmas92 (5 人) |

## 描述

This change uses a ConcurrentHashTable to associate Method* with jmethodID, instead of an indirection.  JNI is deprecated in favor of using Panama to call methods, so I don't think we're concerned about JNI performance going forward.  JVMTI uses a lot of jmethodIDs but there aren't any performance tests for JVMTI, but running vmTestbase/nsk/jvmti with in product build with and without this change had no difference in time.

The purpose of this change is to remove the memory leak when you unload classes: we were leaving the jmethodID memory just in case JVMTI code still had references to that jmethodID and instead of crashing, should get nullptr.  With this change, if JVMTI looks up a jmethodID, we've removed it from the table and will return nullptr.  Redefinition and the InstanceKlass::_jmethod_method_ids is somewhat complicated.  When a method becomes "obsolete" in redefinition, which means that the code in the method is changed, afterward creating a jmethodID from an "obsolete" method will create a new entry in the InstanceKlass table.  This mechanism increases the method_idnum to do this.  In the future maybe we could throw NoSuchMethodError if you try to create a jmethodID out of an obsolete method and remove all this code.  But that's not in this change.

Tested with tier1-4, 5-7.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8268406](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8268406): Deallocate jmethodID native memory (**Enhancement** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Daniel D. Daugherty](https://openjdk.org/census#dcubed) (@dcubed-ojdk - **Reviewer**) Review applies to [cc0d6dda](https://git.openjdk.org/jdk/pull/25267/files/cc0d6dda08051e855db9fc1e588507c53634

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
