# JDK-8268894: forged ASTs can provoke an AIOOBE at com.sun.tools.javac.jvm.ClassWriter::writePosition

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8268894](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8268894) |
| **PR** | [#4749](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/4749) |
| **Author** | lgxbslgx |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-07-11 |
| **Merged** | 2021-08-29 |
| **审查天数** | 49 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | tools |
| **代码变更** | +133 / -1 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | vicente-romero-oracle (1 人) |

## 描述

Hi all,

The method `TypeAnnotationPosition.updatePosOffset` sets the `lvarOffset` unnecessarily. After invoking `TypeAnnotationPosition.updatePosOffset`, the lengths of (`lvarOffset`, `lvarLength`, `lvarIndex`) are respectively (1, 0, 0). Then `Code.fillLocalVarPosition` fills the `lvarOffset`, `lvarLength`, `lvarIndex` which make their lengths become (N, N-1, N-1). At last, the method `ClassWrite.writePosition` uses these three arrays whose lengths are not the same so that the `ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException` occurs.

The `lvarOffset` should be always changed along with `lvarLength` and `lvarIndex` so that their lengths can be the same.

This patch removes the unnecessary `lvarOffset = new int[]{to};` of the method  `TypeAnnotationPosition.updatePosOffset` and add a corresponding test.

---
Steps to reproduce the issue:

1. Construct a annotation processor which set the `pos` of the method sub-tree nodes to the same position. Please see the file `TypeAnnotationPositionProcessor.java` for more details.
2. Compile the code which has the corresponding method with the annotated local variable by using the annotation processor generated at the step 1. Please see the file `TypeAnnotationPositionTest.java` for more details.
3. Then the crash occurs.

Actually, this bug may never occur if the users use the compiler friendly. Because the method `TypeAnnotationPosition.updatePosOffset`, which we mentioned at the beginning, may never be invoked at the situation that the different trees has different and right position.

The lib `lombok` constructs some new tree nodes by using the internal method of the compiler. But it doesn't set the `pos` correctly and uses the same fake position. The unfriendly code of the `lombok` is in the method [JavacHandlerUtil.setGeneratedBy](https://github.com/projectlombok/lombok/blob/master/src/core/lombok/javac/handlers/JavacHandlerUtil.java#L167). At much time, the fake same position works well, but this time, it crashes the co

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
