# JDK-8317007: Add bulk removal of dead nmethods during class unloading

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8317007](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8317007) |
| **PR** | [#16767](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/16767) |
| **Author** | tschatzl |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-11-21 |
| **Merged** | 2023-12-18 |
| **审查天数** | 27 |
| **版本** | JDK 22 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.net |
| **代码变更** | +151 / -65 (27 files) |
| **审查者** | albertnetymk, tschatzl, walulyai (3 人) |

## 描述

Hi all,

  please review this change that bulk-removes dead nmethods for the STW collectors instead of unregistering nmethod by nmethod. This significantly speeds up the class unloading phase.
    
For G1, this is almost 100% the code that has been removed from the review for JDK-8315503.
    
For Serial and Parallel GC, the code is new.
    
This change does not try to improve the situation for concurrent collectors - this would at first glance require extending the scope of the `CodeCache_lock` which I did not want to do. See the CR for more details.
    
Also, no parallelism for Parallel GC: the existing data structure for code root remembered set is a linked list. There is in almost all cases no point in trying to parallelize what is basically a traversal of the linked list (with each element not having a lot of work to do). I filed JDK-8320067. There should already be a significant speedup with this change, as each `unregister_nmethod` call previously traversed the entire linked list to find that element (i.e. complexity reduction of O(n^2) -> O(n)).
    
One more comment:

*  So it would be possible to merge the `ScavengableNMethod::prune_nmethods_not_into_young` which removes elements from the code root sets that do no longer need to be remembered (due to object movement) with removing dead/unlinked nmethods. However, this would mean to put that class unloading code to the end of gc as during phase 1 the new locations which are relevant for pruning uninteresting code root remembered set entries did not move yet. I wanted to keep determining the unlinking nmethods and class/code unloading them together in the code, but I could be convinced to move it.
    
Testing: tier1-4

Depends on #16759, please review first.

Thanks,
  Thomas

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https:

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
