# JDK-8273712: C2: Add mechanism for rejecting inlining of low frequency call sites and deprecate MinInliningThreshold.

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8273712](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8273712) |
| **PR** | [#6046](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/6046) |
| **Author** | veresov |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-10-20 |
| **Merged** | 2021-10-25 |
| **审查天数** | 5 |
| **版本** | JDK 18 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +34 / -22 (6 files) |
| **审查者** | rickard, vnkozlov (2 人) |

## 描述

Currently the inlining heuristic uses absolute method invocation count to reject methods that are rarely executed (see MinInliningThreshold and its uses). 
This presents two problems: 

1. Method can be rarely used in a particular caller, yet if its total execution count is high it may be still inlined. 
2. The use of absolute counts is inherently problematic with the current compilation policy (adaptive threshold and background compilation). It leads to instabilities of inlining decisions. 

The proposed solution is to consider call site execution ratio in order to reject callees that are rarely executed. Set the old cutoff parameter (MinInliningThreshold) to 0 to essentially disable it and later deprecate it. 

Setting the introduced MinInlineFrequencyRatio = 0.0085 produces the following notable improvements: 
Renaissance-Dotty 1.23% 
Renaissance-Mnemonics 3.88% 
Renaissance-NaiveBayes 9.23% 
Renaissance-ScalaKmeans 1.36% 
SPECjvm2008-Derby 3.16% 

There are of course some regressions but those are few and on the order of 1.5%


This PR will require a CSR before it can be pushed. I'll file a CSR after this is reviewed.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8273712](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8273712): C2: Add mechanism for rejecting inlining of low frequency call sites and deprecate MinInliningThreshold.


### Reviewers
 * [Vladimir Kozlov](https://openjdk.java.net/census#kvn) (@vnkozlov - **Reviewer**)
 * [Rickard Bäckman](https://openjdk.java.net/census#rbackman) (@rickard - **Reviewer**)


### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk pull/6046/head:pull/6046` \
`$ git checkout pull/6046`

Update a local

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
