# JDK-8253638: Cleanup os::reserve_memory and remove MAP_FIXED

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8253638](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8253638) |
| **PR** | [#357](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/357) |
| **Author** | stefank |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2020-09-25 |
| **Merged** | 2020-09-28 |
| **审查天数** | 3 |
| **版本** | JDK 16 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +86 / -114 (17 files) |
| **审查者** | iklam, stefank, tstuefe (3 人) |

## 描述

There's a code path through os::reserve_memory that uses MAP_FIXED. This path is used if a requested address is given. It's very dangerous to use MAP_FIXED, since it causes pre-existing mappings to be replaced. Alternative, move safe, functions exists; named os_attempt_reserve_memory_at.

It's not only dangerous to use that API, the Mac AARCH64 port also can't use it in conjunction with its MAP_JIT.

I started to split os::reserve_memory into two functions; one that doesn't care about were the memory is mapped (os::reserve_memory), and another that uses the dangerous MAP_FIXED flag (os::reserve_memory_at). However, I noticed that it's only windows code that actually use os::reserve_memory with a requested address. All other usages have been cleaned out and replaced with os::attempt_reserve_memory. And on windows os::attempt_reserve_memory uses os::reserve_memory with comments that it's safe because it only "attempts" to place the mapping.

So, this patch:
1) Removes the forcefully reserving of memory and its MAP_FIXED usages!
2) Changes the windows code to call the attempt_reserve_memory_at version, that it actually did anyway.
3) Flips the call order between pd_reserve_memory and pd_attempt_reserve_memory_at, on windows.
4) There's also some unification and split done to handle MEMFLAGS and fds. This part needs followup cleanups (IMHO).
5) The AIX implementation already refused to use MAP_FIXED, and now it doesn't need special code to handle that.
6) Small cleanups around anon_mmap and anon_mmap_aligned

/label hotspot

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8253638](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8253638): Cleanup os::reserve_memory and remove MAP_FIXED 


### Reviewers
 * [Thomas Stuefe](https://openjdk.java.n

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
