# JDK-8253650: Cleanup: remove alignment_hint parameter from os::reserve_memory

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8253650](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8253650) |
| **PR** | [#430](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/430) |
| **Author** | tstuefe |
| **组织** | SAP |
| **Created** | 2020-09-30 |
| **Merged** | 2020-10-01 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 16 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +55 / -87 (12 files) |
| **审查者** | stefank, tschatzl, tstuefe (3 人) |

## 描述

Hi all,

since ancient times os::reserve_memory() carried around an "alignment_hint" parameter. It was undocumented but from the name it suggests it would cause os::reserve_memory() to try to align the start of the mapping to a given alignment. However, the only platform ever doing anything with this parameter was AIX, and there only in mmap() mode. All other platforms ignored the parameter.

So it can be removed, provided we fix the AIX case.

Notes:
- if one really needs alignment memory, there is os::reserve_memory_aligned() which guarantees the alignment. It will do the usual over-reserving-and-chopping-away to do that. 
- On AIX there is a second reason why we align the mmap() result pointer to 64K, since we "fake" 64K pages in some places. I disentangled that alignment handling from the caller provided alignment.
- This affects os::reserve_memory() as well as the new os::reserve_memory_with_fd()
- I also fixed comments in virtualSpace.cpp which do not apply anymore after JDK-8253638

Tests: tier1, manual builds and tests on AIX

/issue JDK-8253650

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8253650](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8253650): Cleanup: remove alignment_hint parameter from os::reserve_memory


### Reviewers
 * [Stefan Karlsson](https://openjdk.java.net/census#stefank) (@stefank - **Reviewer**) ⚠️ Review applies to bc4caa9df0ee498ee03a8405b7106d068d1408e5
 * [Thomas Schatzl](https://openjdk.java.net/census#tschatzl) (@tschatzl - **Reviewer**) ⚠️ Review applies to d02225e754f9a1d4d372df1211077950c4589e2c


### Download
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk pull/430/head:pull/430`
`$ git checkout pull/430`

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
