# JDK-8253555: Make ByteSize and WordSize typed scoped enums

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8253555](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8253555) |
| **PR** | [#328](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/328) |
| **Author** | stefank |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2020-09-24 |
| **Merged** | 2020-09-25 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 16 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | build |
| **代码变更** | +74 / -177 (9 files) |
| **审查者** | kimbarrett, stefank, tschatzl (3 人) |

## 描述

It's a common bug in HotSpot that byte values are used when the code asks for words, and vice versa. One attempt to prevent that has been to use the classes ByteSize and WordSize, to make the compiler detect these problems. The current implementation is a bit problematic, because both types are int typedefs in release builds, and wrapper classes in debug builds. This means that we can't use these types in overload resolution. I propose that we fix that by changing the type to scoped enums with a fixed int type. The compiler will then be apple to completely separate ByteSize, WordSize, and ints. We also don't need different code in release vs debug builds.

FWIW, I once created a size_t versions of these classes and annotated all the metaspace code with these types. This experiment flushed out a handful of bugs (some of them were known and the reason for trying that experiment)

There are some controversy about having these classes around. See for example:
JDK-8041956: remove ByteSize and WordSize classes

I hope we can stay away from that discussion in this PR.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8253555](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8253555): Make ByteSize and WordSize typed scoped enums


### Reviewers
 * [Kim Barrett](https://openjdk.java.net/census#kbarrett) (@kimbarrett - **Reviewer**) ⚠️ Review applies to 26f2695f60c31ae0e2db9d24af57af82b17d77a3
 * [Thomas Schatzl](https://openjdk.java.net/census#tschatzl) (@tschatzl - **Reviewer**) ⚠️ Review applies to 26f2695f60c31ae0e2db9d24af57af82b17d77a3


### Download
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk pull/328/head:pull/328`
`$ git checkout pull/328`

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
