# JDK-8253757: Add LLVM-based backend for hsdis

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8253757](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8253757) |
| **PR** | [#7531](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/7531) |
| **Author** | magicus |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-02-18 |
| **Merged** | 2022-02-21 |
| **审查天数** | 3 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | infrastructure |
| **模块** | build |
| **代码变更** | +495 / -5 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | erikj79, luhenry (2 人) |

## 描述

Third time's a charm! After the two previous closed PRs for this issue, I think this functionality is finally ready to enter mainline. :)

This code is at it's core the same as the previous PR. The main C++ hsdis implementation is still the one @luhenry wrote, with some changes. As in the previous PR, I extracted the LLVM-specific part into a separate file. In addition to the last PR, I have also fixed a warning, and added a patch inspired by @nick-arm for getting past instructions unknown to LLVM.

Thanks to the prototype written by @JornVernee (and his graciously providing me with a working version of LLVM build for Windows), this PR now has full support for LLVM on Windows (as well as Linux and macOS).

Finally, I have cleaned up the integration in autoconf and Hsdis.gmk, and written a thorough guide in the README on how to build witth LLVM, on Windows and on saner platforms. :)

I'm pretty sure this means that all comments and criticism in the previous PR has been addressed.

Huge thanks to everyone who has helped me with getting this PR in place. I have a hard time remember a feature that has been so tricky to get in place, for something to seemingly simple...

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8253757](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8253757): Add LLVM-based backend for hsdis


### Reviewers
 * [Erik Joelsson](https://openjdk.java.net/census#erikj) (@erikj79 - **Reviewer**)
 * [Ludovic Henry](https://openjdk.java.net/census#luhenry) (@luhenry - Author)


### Contributors
 * Magnus Ihse Bursie `<ihse@openjdk.org>`
 * Ludovic Henry `<luhenry@openjdk.org>`
 * Jorn Vernee `<jvernee@openjdk.org>`
 * Nick Gasson `<ngasson@openjdk.org>`

### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout th

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
