# JDK-8243455: Many SA tests can fail due to trying to get the stack trace of an active method

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8243455](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8243455) |
| **PR** | [#2700](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/2700) |
| **Author** | plummercj |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-02-23 |
| **Merged** | 2021-03-12 |
| **审查天数** | 17 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +81 / -76 (11 files) |
| **审查者** | YaSuenag, lmesnik, plummercj, sspitsyn (4 人) |

## 描述

Many tests run `LingeredApp`, get its stack with `jstack`, and then look for `LingeredApp.main` in the output, which should appear in the stack trace of the main thread. Usually this works fine since the main thread is in a loop, and usually blocked in `Thread.sleep()`. However, during the short period of time it wakes up from sleep, the thread's stack might not be walk-able, in which case the `LingeredApp.main` frame will not appear, and the tests looking for it will fail.

The fix is to introduce a new thread called `SteadyStateThread` that has a method called `steadyState()` that blocks indefinitely trying to synchronize on a locked object. All code that used to look for `LingeredApp.main` in the output now instead looks for `LingeredApp.steadyState`, which should always be there. I'm open to suggestions for a better name than "SteadyState" if you have one.

There are a few special cases with the tests that were modified that are described below:

Regarding the removal of `LingeredAppWithTrivialMain.java`, it was originally added to fix [JDK-8229118](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8229118), which was an issue with the `ClhsdbFindPC` test failing on aarch64 when doing the `-Xcomp` run. It expected `LingeredApp.main()` to be compiled in that case, and for the PC of the frame to be in an `NMethod`. However, on aarch64 an uncommon-trap was causing it to be de-optimized, so the PC was in the interpreter instead, causing the test to fail. The fix was to instead rely on finding a trivial `LingeredAppWithTrivialMain.main()` frame in the stack trace since it would always be compiled. With the changes to instead have (and rely on) the `SteadyStateThread` and the presence of `LingeredApp.steadyState()`, the need for `LingeredAppWithTrivialMain` goes away. `LingeredApp.steadyState()` will always be compiled, even on aarch64.

Regarding `DebugdConnectTest.java`, it is listed in the CR as an affected test but no specified fix has been provided.
 None is need

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
