# JDK-8312198: [macos] metal pipeline - window rendering stops after display sleep

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8312198](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8312198) |
| **PR** | [#25342](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/25342) |
| **Author** | jayathirthrao |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-05-21 |
| **Merged** | 2025-05-26 |
| **审查天数** | 5 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | client-libs |
| **模块** | client |
| **代码变更** | +24 / -5 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | avu, jayathirthrao, mrserb, prrace (4 人) |

## 描述

In stress based scenarios it is observed that nothing is drawn in UI content when display wakes up from sleep in Metal pipeline of macOS. Unfortunately i am not able to reproduce it, but based on details in the bug it looks like we are hitting a race condition. Call to CVDisplayLinkCreateWithActiveCGDisplays is becoming a no-op as there are no active displays right after NSWorkspaceScreensDidWakeNotification. Looks like if we continue to call CVDisplayLinkCreateWithActiveCGDisplays after screen wakeup we are able to get the list of ActiveDisplays and then able to create displayLink.

So now the code is modified to check whether CVDisplayLinkCreateWithActiveCGDisplays is successful or not. If not we will try to call CVDisplayLinkCreateWithActiveCGDisplays for 5 instances each with 1 second delay. There is no regression test for this change because it needs a stress based test with display wakeup/sleep(As captured in JBS, i am not able to reproduce this issue).

I have tested this change for sanity by running animation examples from SwingSet2 and continuously connecting/disconnecting external display. Also by multiple display sleep and wakeup scenarios, i don't see any regressions. Also whole clientlibs CI run is done with this patch and it is also green.

While working on this bug also noticed that many functions of CVDisplayLink is deprecated from macOS 14 and going forward we need to use CADisplayLink/CAMetalDisplayLink. I have raised [JDK-8357418](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8357418) for the same.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8312198](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8312198): [macos] metal pipeline - window rendering stops

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
