# JDK-8312555: Ideographic characters aren't stretched by AffineTransform.scale(2; 1)

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8312555](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8312555) |
| **PR** | [#15335](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/15335) |
| **Author** | aivanov-jdk |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-08-17 |
| **Merged** | 2023-08-23 |
| **审查天数** | 6 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | client-libs |
| **模块** | client |
| **代码变更** | +224 / -2 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | mrserb, prrace (2 人) |

## 描述

**Problem**

Glyphs aren't stretched by applying an affine transform `scale(2, 1)` to a font. Instead, the space between glyphs increases.

**Root Cause**

Bitmaps embedded in the font are used to render the glyphs; the bitmaps aren't transformed, so white-space is seen which fills the requested horizontal size.

**Fix**

Disable using embedded bitmaps if horizontal transform is different from the vertical one.

It's similar to [JDK-8204929](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8204929) and [JDK-8255387](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8255387).

**Test**

When embedded bitmaps are used, the right half of the image remains filled with the background colour. The test looks for non-white pixels in the right half of the image. If there are only white pixels in the right half of the image, the test fails; if there are other colours, the test passes.

I can reproduce the problem on Windows only. Without the fix, the test reports 6 failures for "MS Gothic", "MS PGothic" and "MS UI Gothic" fonts when text antialiasing is off and when LCD antialiasing is enabled. If greyscale antialiasing is enabled, the glyphs are stretched as expected, this case was handled in JDK-8204929; it can be used as a workaround.

All client tests pass.

~~The test could be *headless*, but headless systems, especially with Linux, don't have fonts installed. Without fonts, the test is useless, therefore I made it *headful*.~~

The test is *headless*.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8312555](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8312555): Ideographic characters aren't stretched by AffineTransform.scale(2, 1) (**Bug** - P3)


### Reviewers
 * [Phil Race](

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
