# JDK-8282441: [LOOM] The debug agent should attempt to free vthread ThreadNodes

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8282441](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8282441) |
| **PR** | [#28211](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/28211) |
| **Author** | plummercj |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-11-10 |
| **Merged** | 2025-11-21 |
| **审查天数** | 11 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | core-svc |
| **模块** | runtime/threading |
| **代码变更** | +205 / -57 (1 files) |
| **审查者** | alexmenkov, plummercj, sspitsyn (3 人) |

## 描述

This is first of what will probably be 3 PRs to improve virtual thread ThreadNode handling in the debug agent, with a goal of improving performance and reducing footprint.

This PR focuses on purging virtual thread ThreadNodes in two places:

1. Freeing the ThreadNode after handling a THREAD_START event for a virtual thread.
2. Doing a "GC" of virtual thread ThreadNodes just before doing a "suspend all"

At some point in the future I want to attempt to free the ThreadNodes after performing ThreadReference related commands, which will result in the creation of a ThreadNode if not already created. Another area is in handleReportEventCompositeCommand() when the thread is not null and we are using the SUSPEND_NONE policy. This will get more ThreadNodes freed immediately after handling an event.

Part of the challenge with this PR is that there are many places in the debug agent that expect a ThreadNode to already have been created for the virtual thread, but now it is common that they have not. The main way this has been addressed is by having findRunningThread() create the ThreadNode if it does not already exist.

At some point in the future I will probably add logic to only "GC" ThreadNodes after the number reaches some threshold, but right now I want to free them very aggressively so we'll catch any bugs where there debug agent expects a ThreadNode to exist, but possibly now it might not.

Tested by running all tier2, tier5, and tier6 CI svc tests.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8282441](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8282441): [LOOM] The debug agent should attempt to free vthread ThreadNodes (**Bug** - P3)


### Reviewers
 * [

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
