# JDK-8282590: C2: assert(addp->is_AddP() && addp->outcnt() > 0) failed: Don't process dead nodes

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8282590](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8282590) |
| **PR** | [#7728](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/7728) |
| **Author** | eme64 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-03-07 |
| **Merged** | 2022-03-22 |
| **审查天数** | 15 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +35 / -9 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | TobiHartmann, chhagedorn (2 人) |

## 描述

Problem:
Sometimes nodes are generated, and then not properly added to any other node, nor added to the worklist, so that it could be deleted. In some cases, a node can thus survive after IGVN and enter into `ConnectionGraph::compute_escape`, where no dead nodes are expected (except constants).

In `ArrayCopyNode::prepare_array_copy`:
In one, I now add the new ConvI2LNode to the worklist if we are aborting.
In the other case, I could safely reorder the code, such new ConvI2LNode would only be generated once we know we are not going to abort.

In `SubTypeCheckNode::Ideal`:
Replaced `set_req` with `set_req_X`, such that the input-node that is replaced (which is now potentially a dead node) is put on the worklist.

In `ArrayCopyNode::Ideal`:
If we decide to `return NULL` we also need to add the potentially dead forward / backward memory nodes to the worklist, they may turn out to be dead.

Added a regression test: the test + flag combination that first reproduced this issue.

All Tests, including this new regression test are passing. Tests rerun after small refactorings.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8282590](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8282590): C2: assert(addp->is_AddP() && addp->outcnt() > 0) failed: Don't process dead nodes


### Reviewers
 * [Tobias Hartmann](https://openjdk.java.net/census#thartmann) (@TobiHartmann - **Reviewer**)
 * [Christian Hagedorn](https://openjdk.java.net/census#chagedorn) (@chhagedorn - **Reviewer**)


### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk pull/7728/head:pull/7728` \
`$ git checkout pull/7728`

Update a local copy of the PR: \
`$ git checkout pull/7728` \
`$ git pull http


> **Backported to**: JDK 17u

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
