# JDK-8282641: Make jdb "threadgroup" command with no args reset the current threadgroup back to the default

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8282641](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8282641) |
| **PR** | [#7687](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/7687) |
| **Author** | plummercj |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-03-04 |
| **Merged** | 2022-03-09 |
| **审查天数** | 5 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-svc |
| **模块** | runtime/threading |
| **代码变更** | +26 / -14 (5 files) |
| **审查者** | alexmenkov, kevinjwalls (2 人) |

## 描述

jdb has a probably very little used command called "threadgroup" which is used to set the current TheadGroup. The only purpose of the current ThreadGroup is as the default ThreadGroup to use for the "threads" command when no ThreadGroup argument is passed to it.

"threads" prints out every thread in the ThreadGroup specified as the first argument. If none is specified, it uses the current ThreadGroup. If the current ThreadGroup has not yet been specified, it automatically gets set to the top level ThreadGroup.

Once the current ThreadGroup has been set by using the threadgroup command, it's not that obvious how to reset it back to the default. It turns out the way to do this to set it to the "system" ThreadGroup, which is the top level ThreadGroup (and therefore the initial current ThreadGroup).

With this enhancement I've made it so if you use the "threadgroup" command with no argument, it resets the current ThreadGroup back to the top level ThreadGroup ("system"). Previously with no argument it produces an error for not specifying the ThreadGroup argument.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8282641](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8282641): Make jdb "threadgroup" command with no args reset the current threadgroup back to the default


### Reviewers
 * [Kevin Walls](https://openjdk.java.net/census#kevinw) (@kevinjwalls - Committer) ⚠️ Review applies to fb7ac63f89efe433b0923858a593fd0420ffe15f
 * [Alex Menkov](https://openjdk.java.net/census#amenkov) (@alexmenkov - **Reviewer**)


### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk pull/7687/head:pull/7687` \
`$ git checkout pull/7687`

Update a local copy of the PR: \
`$ git chec

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
