# JDK-8282691: add jdb "-R" option for passing any argument to the launched debuggee process

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8282691](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8282691) |
| **PR** | [#7708](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/7708) |
| **Author** | plummercj |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-03-04 |
| **Merged** | 2022-03-14 |
| **审查天数** | 10 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | core-svc |
| **模块** | runtime/process |
| **代码变更** | +36 / -7 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | AlanBateman, kevinjwalls, plummercj (3 人) |

## 描述

jdb has 3 types of arguments:

1. Those that are jdb specific, such as -attach, -launch, and -listconnectors
2. Those that are passed to the JVM used to run jdb. These are all prefixed with -J, and any valid JVM argument can be passed in this manner.
3. Those that are passed to the debuggee JVM when it is launched, such as -classpath, -D<property>, and any option that starts with -X (including -XX)

The problem with the 3rd group is that (other than for -D and -X), jdb will only pass through arguments that it recognizes, and that list is very limited. When you want to launch the debuggee with an argument that jdb doesn't recognize, you have no choice but to launch the debuggee yourself (using a separate command line and using the -agentlib:jdwp argument) and then tell jdb to attach to the debuggee process. It's much easier when you can just let jdb launch the debuggee, and our nsk/jdb testing currently relies on this feature.

This PR adds the jdb -R<option> where <option> is passed through to the debuggee JVM. This allows the passing through of any JVM option, not just ones that jdb knows about. This is consistent with how jshell passes arguments to the debuggee.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed
- [x] Change requires a CSR request to be approved

### Issues
 * [JDK-8282691](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8282691): add jdb "-R" option for passing any argument to the launched debuggee process
 * [JDK-8282830](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8282830): add jdb "-R" option for passing any argument to the launched debuggee process (**CSR**)


### Reviewers
 * [Alan Bateman](https://openjdk.java.net/census#alanb) (@AlanBateman - **Reviewer**)
 * [Kevin Walls](https://openjdk.java.net/census#kevinw) (@kevinjwalls - Committer)

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
