# JDK-8282648: Weaken the InflaterInputStream specification in order to allow faster Zip implementations

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8282648](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8282648) |
| **PR** | [#7986](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/7986) |
| **Author** | simonis |
| **组织** | SAP |
| **Created** | 2022-03-28 |
| **Merged** | 2022-09-05 |
| **审查天数** | 161 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.io |
| **代码变更** | +82 / -19 (7 files) |
| **审查者** | AlanBateman, LanceAndersen, jaikiran, jddarcy, mbreinhold, simonis (6 人) |

## 描述

Add an API note to `InflaterInputStream::read(byte[] b, int off, int len)` to highlight that it might  write more bytes than the returned number of inflated bytes into the buffer `b`.

The superclass `java.io.InputStream` specifies that `read(byte[] b, int off, int len)` will leave the content beyond the last read byte in the read buffer `b` unaffected. However, the overridden `read` method in `InflaterInputStream` passes the read buffer `b` to `Inflater::inflate(byte[] b, int off, int len)` which doesn't provide this guarantee. Depending on implementation details, `Inflater::inflate` might write more than the returned number of inflated bytes into the buffer `b`.

### TL;DR

`java.util.zip.Inflater` is the Java wrapper class for zlib's inflater functionality. `Inflater::inflate(byte[] output, int off, int len)` currently calls zlib's native `inflate(..)` function and passes the address of `output[off]` and `len` to it via JNI.

The specification of zlib's `inflate(..)` function (i.e. the [API documentation in the original zlib implementation](https://github.com/madler/zlib/blob/cacf7f1d4e3d44d871b605da3b647f07d718623f/zlib.h#L400)) doesn't give any guarantees with regard to usage of the output buffer. It only states that upon completion the function will return the number of bytes that have been written (i.e. "inflated") into the output buffer.

The original zlib implementation only wrote as many bytes into the output buffer as it inflated. However, this is not a hard requirement and newer, more performant implementations of the zlib library like [zlib-chromium](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/third_party/zlib/) or [zlib-cloudflare](https://github.com/cloudflare/zlib) can use more bytes of the output buffer than they actually inflate as a scratch buffer. See https://github.com/simonis/zlib-chromium for a more detailed description of their approach and its performance benefit.

These new zlib versions can still be used transparently from J

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
