# JDK-8221360: Eliminate Shared_DirtyCardQ_lock

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8221360](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8221360) |
| **PR** | [#5118](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/5118) |
| **Author** | kimbarrett |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-08-14 |
| **Merged** | 2021-08-24 |
| **审查天数** | 10 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | runtime/threading |
| **代码变更** | +27 / -157 (9 files) |
| **审查者** | kimbarrett, tschatzl, walulyai (3 人) |

## 描述

Please review this change to the handling of a very rare race condition in
concurrent refinement.  There is a situation where we many be unable to
process a card and need to re-dirty and re-enqueue it for later processing.

The old code handled this using a shared dirty card queue, which various
other places needed to know about as well.  This was the user of the
Shared_DirtyCardQ_lock.  It was the only remaining Mutex whose rank is based
on Mutex::access.

An option for eliminating that lock was to use a lock-free queue.  But
rather than take on that complexity, we instead brute-force the problem.
The new implementation simply allocates and enqueues an entire buffer for
the one card that needs to be reprocessed.  Those operations are already
lock-free.  The extra cost doesn't really matter, since this situation
almost never arises.

This is now done inline in refine_card_concurrently.  It's not worth the
overhead of a class for what is now just a few lines of code needed in
exactly one place.  Places that knew about the shared queue in order to
flush/reset it at certain points no longer have such responsibilities.

This change also renders JDK-8214997 moot, since there aren't any 'access'
locks.
https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8214997
Crash holding 'access' lock can deadlock in JVMCI compiler thread

This change also allows the removal of Mutex::access.  That's being left to
a new enhancement, since I think it also allows removing Mutex::tty,
reverting back to using Mutex::event for the tty_lock.  That is, essentially
undo JDK-8214315.
https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8272480

Testing:
mach5 tier1-5

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8221360](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JD

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
