# JDK-8318913: The module-infos for --release data do not contain pre-set versions

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8318913](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8318913) |
| **PR** | [#16400](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/16400) |
| **Author** | lahodaj |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-10-27 |
| **Merged** | 2023-11-24 |
| **审查天数** | 28 |
| **版本** | JDK 22 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | runtime/classloading |
| **代码变更** | +546 / -260 (14 files) |
| **审查者** | erikj79, magicus, vicente-romero-oracle (3 人) |

## 描述

Consider a simple module, like:
```
module test {}
```

And compile it with JDK 22 and JDK 21 using:
javac --release 21

The results of the compilations will differ: when compiling with JDK 21, the mandated java.base dependency will get a version, possibly like "21-internal". When compiling with JDK 22, the version of the java.base dependency will be empty.

This is a) because `module-info.class`es in `ct.sym` do not have any module version set; b) for JDK N, `--release N` is not using `ct.sym`, but rather `lib/modules`, which may contain a range of version specifiers.

This patch does two changes:
a) tweaks the `module-info.class`es in `ct.sym`, so that they contain a simple version. For `--release N`, the version is `N`.
b) tweaks the whole build so that `ct.sym` is used always for `--release`, a `lib/modules` is never used. I.e. the appropriate classfiles are copied into `ct.sym`. This not only allows for a general approach to module versions, but simplifies the `--release` handling in javac, and should enable future improvements. This is, however, a relatively big change.

The use of `lib/modules` for `--release <current>` was made to improve build performance, but the build has been updated since this has been introduced, so the slowdown caused by rebuilding `ct.sym` should be much lower now.

With these changes, compiling with `--release N` should record the same dependency versions in `module-info` on JDK N and JDK N + 1.

/contributor add erikj79

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change requires CSR request [JDK-8319842](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8319842) to be approved
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issues
 * [JDK-8318913](https://bugs.openjdk.org

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
