# JDK-8348426: Generate binary file for -XX:AOTMode=record -XX:AOTConfiguration=file

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8348426](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8348426) |
| **PR** | [#23484](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/23484) |
| **Author** | iklam |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-02-06 |
| **Merged** | 2025-02-25 |
| **审查天数** | 19 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.io |
| **代码变更** | +1184 / -217 (42 files) |
| **审查者** | ashu-mehra, calvinccheung, iklam, turbanoff, veresov, vnkozlov (6 人) |

## 描述

Currently, with `java -XX:AOTMode=record -XX:AOTConfiguration=file ...`, a text file is written. The file contains the names of loaded classes, indices of resolved constant pools entries, etc, that are easily represented in text.

With the upcoming 2nd JEP of the Leyden project, [JDK-8325147](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8325147) (Ahead-of-Time Method Profiling), the AOT config file needs to record complex data structures that are difficult to represent in text (we would need code for serializing hierarchical data structures to/from text). Also, a next step after [JDK-8325147](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8325147) would be to support hidden classes that have no predictable names. Representing such classes with textual names would become another challenge.

To prepare for  [JDK-8325147](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8325147), this PR writes the AOT configuration file in a **binary format** (essentially the same format as a CDS archive file). This allows arbitrary data associated with the cached classes to be processed and stored using the existing `MetaspaceClosure` API (which can recursively copy C++ objects). Such a change in the file format is allowed by [JEP 483](https://openjdk.org/jeps/483):

> the format of the configuration and cache files is not specified and is subject to change without notice.

**Notes for reviewers:**

- Although the new config file format is essentially the same as a CDS "static" archive, for sanity, we use a different magic number so that the config file cannot be accidentally used as a CDS archive. See new tests inside AOTFlags.java.
- After this PR, the CDS "static" archive can be dumped in three modes: "classic", "preimage", and "final". See new comments in cdsConfig.hpp.
- The main starting point of this PR is `CDSConfig::check_aot_flags()` - it checks the existence of `-XX:AOTConfiguration` and `-XX:AOTMode` to configure the JVM to dump the CDS "preimage" or "final" archives as necessary.
- Most of

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
