# JDK-8260555: Change the default TIMEOUT_FACTOR from 4 to 1

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8260555](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8260555) |
| **PR** | [#26749](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/26749) |
| **Author** | lkorinth |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-08-12 |
| **Merged** | 2025-09-02 |
| **审查天数** | 21 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +810 / -850 (342 files) |
| **审查者** | albertnetymk, dholmes-ora, erikj79, lkorinth, lmesnik, magicus, prrace, sendaoYan +2 (10 人) |

## 描述

This changes the timeout factor from 4 to 1. Most of the changes add timeouts to individual test cases so that I am able to run them with a timeout factor of 0.7 (some margin to the checked in factor of one)

In addition to changing the timeout factor, I am also using a library call to parse the timeout factor from the Java properties (I cannot use the library function everywhere as jtreg does not allow me to add @library notations to non test case files).

My approach has been to run all tests, and afterwards updating those that fail due to the timeout factor. The amount of updated test cases is huge, and my strategy has been to quadruple the timeout if I could not directly see that less was needed. In a few places, I have added a bit more timeout so that it will work with the 0.7 timeout factor.

These fixes have been created when I have ploughed through test cases:
JDK-8352719: Add an equals sign to the modules statement
JDK-8352709: Remove bad timing annotations from WhileOpTest.java
JDK-8352074: Test MemoryLeak.java seems not to test what it is supposed to test
CODETOOLS-7903937: JTREG uses timeout factor on socket timeout but not on KEEPALIVE
CODETOOLS-7903961: Make default timeout configurable

After the review, I will update the copyrights.

I have run testing tier1-8. The last time with a timeout factor of 1 instead of 0.7.

I got 4 timing related faults:
1) runtime/Thread/TestThreadDumpMonitorContention.java
   This is probably: https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8361370
2) sun/tools/jhsdb/BasicLauncherTest.java
   I am unsure about this one, it has not failed on my runs before, even with a timeout factor of 0.7, maybe I was unlucky.
3) gc/stress/TestReclaimStringsLeaksMemory.java
   I updated this to 480 seconds, I finish this fairly fast (~14s) on my not very fast computer, but the Macs that fail are old x86-based ones.
4) sun/security/ssl/X509KeyManager/CertChecking.java
   This is a new test that I got on last rebase. I have a

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
