# JDK-8260401: StackOverflowError on open WindowsPreferences

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8260401](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8260401) |
| **PR** | [#2326](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/2326) |
| **Author** | jaikiran |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-01-30 |
| **Merged** | 2021-02-13 |
| **审查天数** | 14 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs |
| **代码变更** | +3 / -3 (1 files) |
| **审查者** | bplb (1 人) |

## 描述

Can I please get a review for this change which proposes to fix the issue reported in https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8260401?

As noted in that issue, when the constructor of `java.util.prefs.WindowsPreferences` runs into an error while dealing with the Windows registry, it logs a warning message. The message construction calls `rootNativeHandle()` (on the same instance of `WindowsPreferences` that's being constructed) which then ultimately ends up calling the constructor of `WindowsPreferences` which then again runs into the Windows registry error and attempts to log a message and this whole cycle repeats indefinitely leading to that `StackOverFlowError`. 

Based on my limited knowledge of the code in that constructor and analyzing that code a bit, it's my understanding (and also the input provided by the reporter of the bug) that the log message should actually be using the `rootNativeHandle` parameter that is passed to this constructor instead of invoking the `rootNativeHandle()` method. The commit in this PR does this change to use the passed `rootNativeHandle` in the log message.

Furthermore, there's another constructor in this class which does a similar thing and potentially can run into the same error as this one. I've changed that constructor too, to avoid the call to `rootNativeHandle()` method in that log message. Reading the log message that's being generated there, it's my understanding that this change shouldn't cause any inaccuracy in what's being logged and in fact, I think it's now more precise about which handle returned the error code.

Finally, this log message creation, in both the constructors, also calls `windowsAbsolutePath()` and `byteArrayToString()` methods. The `byteArrayToString()` is a static method and a call to it doesn't lead back to the constructor again. The `windowsAbsolutePath()` is a instance method and although it does use a instance variable `absolutePath`, that instance variable is already initialized approp

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
