# JDK-8246112: Remove build-time and run-time checks for clock_gettime and CLOCK_MONOTONIC

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8246112](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8246112) |
| **PR** | [#2090](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/2090) |
| **Author** | dholmes-ora |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-01-15 |
| **Merged** | 2021-01-27 |
| **审查天数** | 12 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | build |
| **代码变更** | +89 / -358 (16 files) |
| **审查者** | erikj79, gerard-ziemski, hseigel, magicus, mkraljt (5 人) |

## 描述

We are now confident that we have build-time and runtime support for clock_gettime and CLOCK_MONOTONIC on all our OpenJDK supported POSIX platforms - see bug report for some more details on different OS. Consequently we can simplify a lot of the code in this area and move common code to os_posix.

As of glibc 2.17 the necessary functions are in glibc rather than librt, but we (Oracle at least) aren't yet in position to set our minimum Linux version to support that. We still have supported platforms at glibc 2.12. So to address that we link librt at build time on Linux. This seems to work find for older and more modern Linuxes and also works for the Apline Linux with Musl variant.

The changes are in layered commits:

Step 1: Remove build time checks. SUPPORTS_CLOCK_MONOTONIC is assumed true and removed.
Step 2: make supports_monotonic_clock always true and so remove checking in OS code
Step 3: Replace gettimeofday by clock_gettime(CLOCK_REALTIME)
Step 4: Move shared time functions to os_posix.cpp
Step 5: Alway link librt on Linux so we don't rely on glibc > 2.17

Testing: tiers 1-3 for functional testing
             built and checked (-Xlog:os) on Linux with glibc 2.12 and 2.17,  macOS 10.13.6 and 10.15.7

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8246112](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8246112): Remove build-time and run-time checks for clock_gettime and CLOCK_MONOTONIC


### Reviewers
 * [Magnus Ihse Bursie](https://openjdk.java.net/census#ihse) (@magicus - **Reviewer**) ⚠️ Review applies to e59676fdec621b3cfe73ef48f0605b16346f5ae2
 * [Erik Joelsson](https://openjdk.java.net/census#erikj) (@erikj79 - **Reviewer**) ⚠️ Review applies to e59676fdec621b3cfe73ef48f0605b16346f5ae2
 * [Gerard Ziemski](https://openjdk.jav

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
