# JDK-8346880: [aix] java/lang/ProcessHandle/InfoTest.java still fails: "reported cputime less than expected"

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8346880](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8346880) |
| **PR** | [#22966](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/22966) |
| **Author** | JoKern65 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-01-08 |
| **Merged** | 2025-01-09 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +18 / -1 (1 files) |
| **审查者** | JoKern65, MBaesken, RealCLanger, TheRealMDoerr (4 人) |

## 描述

The test java/lang/ProcessHandle/InfoTest.java still fails sporadically on AIX. The test exclusion was removed through [JDK-8211847](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8211847) under the assumption the problem was gone. But it turned out that it was wrong.

We can see an exception like:

java.lang.AssertionError: reported cputime less than expected: PT0.2S, actual: Optional[PT0.021179882S]
at org.testng.Assert.fail(Assert.java:99)
at InfoTest.test1(InfoTest.java:110)

After a discussion with Roger Riggs and the team, we came to the following conclusion.
The problem is based on 2 independent causes; one fundamental and one AIX-specific.

The fundamental cause is as follows:
Modern hardware provides many hardware threads (up to several hundred) that enable the worker threads of the processes to be processed in real parallel. To ensure that such a worker thread does not take up a hardware thread resource for itself, it is rolled out by the OS after a few ms at the latest to make room for another worker thread, possibly from another process.
The OS continuously adds up all the times that each worker thread of a process is active as process cpu time.

It is easy to see that there is no correlation between the CPU time of a process and the real time(wall time).

If you have a system with many hardware threads and few worker threads, these are active almost all the time. If they are rolled out, they are immediately rolled back in due to a lack of competition. If a process has several worker threads, the CPU time will increase faster than the real time. In this case, cpu time > real time is to be expected, which is what the test wants.

However, if the same system is heavily loaded, i.e. there are a lot of worker threads competing on one hardware thread, each individual worker thread can only become active relatively rarely. Even if a process has several worker threads, the total CPU time will be less than the past real time. This is even more pronounced

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
