# JDK-8261242: [Linux] OSContainer::is_containerized() returns true when run outside a container

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8261242](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8261242) |
| **PR** | [#18201](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18201) |
| **Author** | jerboaa |
| **组织** | IBM |
| **Created** | 2024-03-11 |
| **Merged** | 2024-07-01 |
| **审查天数** | 112 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | runtime/container |
| **代码变更** | +290 / -64 (19 files) |
| **审查者** | iklam, jerboaa, larry-cable, tstuefe (4 人) |

## 描述

Please review this enhancement to the container detection code which allows it to figure out whether the JVM is actually running inside a container (`podman`, `docker`, `crio`), or with some other means that enforces memory/cpu limits by means of the cgroup filesystem. If neither of those conditions hold, the JVM runs in not containerized mode, addressing the issue described in the JBS tracker. For example, on my Linux system `is_containerized() == false" is being indicated with the following trace log line:

```
[0.001s][debug][os,container] OSContainer::init: is_containerized() = false because no cpu or memory limit is present
```

This state is being exposed by the Java `Metrics` API class using the new (still JDK internal) `isContainerized()` method. Example:

```
java -XshowSettings:system --version
Operating System Metrics:
    Provider: cgroupv1
    System not containerized.
openjdk 23-internal 2024-09-17
OpenJDK Runtime Environment (fastdebug build 23-internal-adhoc.sgehwolf.jdk-jdk)
OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (fastdebug build 23-internal-adhoc.sgehwolf.jdk-jdk, mixed mode, sharing)
```

The basic property this is being built on is the observation that the cgroup controllers typically get mounted read only into containers. Note that the current container tests assert that `OSContainer::is_containerized() == true` in various tests. Therefore, using the heuristic of "is any memory or cpu limit present" isn't sufficient. I had considered that in an earlier iteration, but many container tests failed.

Overall, I think, with this patch we improve the current situation of claiming a containerized system being present when it's actually just a regular Linux system.

Testing:

- [x] GHA (risc-v failure seems infra related)
- [x] Container tests on Linux x86_64 of cgroups v1 and cgroups v2 (including gtests)
- [x] Some manual testing using cri-o

Thoughts?

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit man


> **Backported to**: JDK 21u

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
