# JDK-8206311: Add docs-javase; docs-reference to CI build

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8206311](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8206311) |
| **PR** | [#99](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/99) |
| **Author** | erikj79 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2020-09-09 |
| **Merged** | 2020-10-21 |
| **审查天数** | 42 |
| **版本** | JDK 16 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | infrastructure |
| **模块** | build |
| **代码变更** | +140 / -35 (7 files) |
| **审查者** | erikj79, magicus (2 人) |

## 描述

Reposting this review as PR.

In order to regularly build the javase and reference docs images, I have made the following changes:

1. Introduced bundle targets for the javase and reference docs images.
2. To run this in CI without adding more unnecessary build time to the linux-x64 target (where the current docs are built), I created a new jib profile "docs". This will run in a separate task and will build all 3 docs targets.
3. To enable the docs targets to run standalone without having to build a full JDK, I had to tweak the "build-jdk" concept a bit, to allow it to also function when not cross compiling for certain parts of the build. Specifically the buildtools-modules can now be built by a "build-jdk" instead of the exploded image.
4. For symmetry, I renamed variables and targets involving docs images to always include one of "jdk", "javase" or "reference" in the name. See below for targets.

The new top level targets are:

docs-{jdk.javase,reference}-image:
Aliases for the existing docs-{jdk,javase,reference} added for consistency. The old docs-image is now an alias for docs-jdk-image.

all-docs-images:
Builds all 3 of the above docs images.

docs-{jdk,javase,reference}-bundles:
Builds the bundles for each kind of docs image. The existing docs-bundles is now an alias for docs-jdk-bundles.

all-docs-bundles:
Builds all the docs bundles.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8206311](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8206311): Add docs-javase, docs-reference to CI build


### Reviewers
 * [Magnus Ihse Bursie](https://openjdk.java.net/census#ihse) (@magicus - **Reviewer**) ⚠️ Review applies to 197eac5c3f3e66ea4e983efdc2e929fd8f41ef49


### Download
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk pull/99/head:pull/99`
`$ git c

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
