# JDK-8320725: AArch64: C2: Add "requires_strict_order" flag for floating-point add and mul reduction

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8320725](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8320725) |
| **PR** | [#18034](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18034) |
| **Author** | Bhavana-Kilambi |
| **组织** | ARM |
| **Created** | 2024-02-27 |
| **Merged** | 2024-06-11 |
| **审查天数** | 105 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +575 / -118 (10 files) |
| **审查者** | Bhavana-Kilambi, eme64, lgxbslgx, theRealAph (4 人) |

## 描述

Floating-point addition is non-associative, that is adding floating-point elements in arbitrary order may get different value. Specially, Vector API does not define the order of reduction intentionally, which allows platforms to generate more efficient codes [1]. So that needs a node to represent non strictly-ordered add-reduction for floating-point type in C2.

To avoid introducing new nodes, this patch adds a bool field in `AddReductionVF/D` to distinguish whether they require strict order. It also removes `UnorderedReductionNode` and adds a virtual function `bool requires_strict_order()` in `ReductionNode`. Besides `AddReductionVF/D`, other reduction nodes' `requires_strict_order()` have a fixed value.

With this patch, Vector API would always generate non strictly-ordered `AddReductionVF/D' on SVE machines with vector length <= 16B as it is more beneficial to generate non-strictly ordered instructions on such machines compared to strictly ordered ones.

[AArch64]
On Neon, non strictly-ordered `AddReductionVF/D` cannot be generated. Auto-vectorization has already banned these nodes in JDK-8275275 [2].

This patch adds matching rules for non strictly-ordered `AddReductionVF/D`.

No effects on other platforms.

[Performance]
FloatMaxVector.ADDLanes [3] measures the performance of add reduction for floating-point type. With this patch, it improves ~3x on my SVE machine (128-bit).

ADDLanes
```
Benchmark                 Before     After      Unit
FloatMaxVector.ADDLanes   1789.513   5264.226   ops/ms
```

Final code is as below:

Before:
`        fadda        z17.s, p7/m, z17.s, z16.s
`
After:
```
        faddp        v17.4s, v21.4s, v21.4s
        faddp        s18, v17.2s
        fadd         s18, s18, s19


```

[Test]
Full jtreg passed on AArch64 and x86.

[1] https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/blob/master/src/jdk.incubator.vector/share/classes/jdk/incubator/vector/FloatVector.java#L2529
[2] https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
