# JDK-8357053: ZGC: Improved utility for ZPageAge

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8357053](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8357053) |
| **PR** | [#25251](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/25251) |
| **Author** | jsikstro |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-05-15 |
| **Merged** | 2025-06-09 |
| **审查天数** | 25 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | gc/zgc |
| **代码变更** | +191 / -58 (14 files) |
| **审查者** | jsikstro, kstefanj, stefank (3 人) |

## 描述

Hello,

This RFE improves utility for converting to/from, iterating over and defining structures that are indexed using the `ZPageAge` type.

Converting to/from ZPageAge and its underlying type (uint8_t, often just uint) is currently done via using static_cast. This works fine because sane values are converted in all use cases. However, to make conversion safer (and also more readable), I propose we add a `to_zpageage` and a corresponding `untype` that checks that the conversion is valid. Such conversion methods should be used instead of calling `static_cast<uint/ZPageAge>`.

We currently define a value called `ZPageAgeMax`, which is defined as `static_cast<uint>(ZPageAge::old)`. The majority of places that use this value actualy use `ZPageAgeMax + 1`, which is equivalent to the number of ages. Instead, I propose we define and use a value that represents the number of possible ages, called `ZPageAgeCount`.

Lastly, to make iterating over ages more accessible, I propose we create an intreface of enum iterators of ZPageAge. This will also create a foundation for generating values that require a ZPageAge in the future. Since the end of the enum iterators are exclusive, I've opted to use the following value as end for the iterators:
```
constexpr ZPageAge ZPageAgeLastPlusOne = static_cast<ZPageAge>(ZPageAgeCount);
```

I see us using either this or a sentinel/dummy value at the end of the enum class, but I prefer having a value similar to `ZPageAgeLastPlusOne` over a dummy value.

Testing:
* Oracle's tier 1-4
* GHA

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8357053](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8357053): ZGC: Improved utility for ZPageA

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
