# JDK-8357402: Crash in AdapterHandlerLibrary::lookup

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8357402](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8357402) |
| **PR** | [#25398](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/25398) |
| **Author** | vnkozlov |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-05-22 |
| **Merged** | 2025-05-22 |
| **审查天数** | 0 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P2 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +36 / -25 (7 files) |
| **审查者** | ashu-mehra, shipilev, veresov, vnkozlov (4 人) |

## 描述

See details in the bug report.

The issue is: AOT adapters table `_aot_adapter_handler_table` is accessed during "Assembly" phase when this table is not valid. It happened because the guard in `AdapterHandlerLibrary::lookup()` became invalid after we dumped and close AOT code cache. `AOTCodeCache::is_dumping_adapter()` will return `false` in such case. Instead we should use `AOTCodeCache::is_using_adapter()` check which is valid only during "Production" run when AOT adapters are loaded and `_aot_adapter_handler_table` is valid. I added this guard in all places where the table is accessed.

Because we can't rely on `AOTCodeCache::is_dumping_adapter()` during AOT archive creation I restored `CDSConfig::is_dumping_adapters()` to use instead. `AOTCodeCache::is_dumping_adapter()` check is only used when we  are storing adapters in AOT code cache.

I also noticed the hash clash for some adapters signature (we caught it by comparing recorded and actual signature) and as result we completely bailout AOT code loading. We should not do complete bail out - instead we should just skip this one blob. We are not modifying data in AOT code cache - it is still valid for other code blobs.

tested hs-tier1-10, jck, xcomp, stress

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8357402](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8357402): Crash in AdapterHandlerLibrary::lookup (**Bug** - P2)


### Reviewers
 * [Aleksey Shipilev](https://openjdk.org/census#shade) (@shipilev - **Reviewer**)
 * [Igor Veresov](https://openjdk.org/census#iveresov) (@veresov - **Reviewer**)

### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch https

## 变更文件

| 文件 | 状态 | +/- |
|------|------|-----|
| src/hotspot/share/cds/archiveBuilder.cpp | modified | +1/-1 |
| src/hotspot/share/cds/cdsConfig.cpp | modified | +4/-0 |
| src/hotspot/share/cds/cdsConfig.hpp | modified | +1/-0 |
| src/hotspot/share/cds/metaspaceShared.cpp | modified | +1/-1 |
| src/hotspot/share/code/aotCodeCache.cpp | modified | +3/-3 |
| src/hotspot/share/oops/method.cpp | modified | +4/-2 |
| src/hotspot/share/runtime/sharedRuntime.cpp | modified | +22/-18 |

## 审查讨论

- **ashu-mehra**: We shouldn't be setting _adapter to null here. This breaks the link between Method and its adapter in the AOT cache.
- **vnkozlov**: Without nulling it I got issue with referencing dead memory through this field.
- **ashu-mehra**: I think that should not be happening. Can you please create a new issue for this with more details and I can try to see why is that the case.

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
