# JDK-8328702: C2: Crash during parsing because sub type check is not folded

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8328702](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8328702) |
| **PR** | [#18512](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18512) |
| **Author** | chhagedorn |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-03-27 |
| **Merged** | 2024-04-04 |
| **审查天数** | 8 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P2 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +141 / -4 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | chhagedorn, rwestrel, vnkozlov (3 人) |

## 描述

The test case shows a problem where data is folded during parsing while control is not. This leaves the graph in a broken state and we fail with an assertion.

We have the following (pseudo) code for some class `X`:
```
o = flag ? new Object[] : new byte[]; 
if (o instanceof X) {
   X x = (X)o; // checkcast
}
```
For the `checkcast`, C2 knows that the type of `o` is some kind of array, i.e. type `[bottom`. But this cannot be a sub type of `X`. Therefore, the `CheckCastPP` node created for the `checkcast` result is replaced by top by the type system. However, the `SubTypeCheckNode` for the `checkcast` is not folded and the graph is broken.

The problem of not folding the `SubTypeCheckNode` can be traced back to `SubTypeCheckNode::sub` calling `static_subtype_check()` when transforming the node after it's creation. `static_subtype_check()` should detect that the sub type check is always wrong here:
https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/blob/d0a265039a36292d87b249af0e8977982e5acc7b/src/hotspot/share/opto/compile.cpp#L4454-L4460

But it does not because these two checks return the following:
1. Check: is `o` a sub type of `X`? -> returns no, so far so good.
2. Check: _could_ `o` be a sub type of `X`? -> returns no which is wrong! `[bottom` is only a sub type of `Object` and can never be a subtype of `X`

In `maybe_java_subtype_of_helper_for_arr()`, we wrongly conclude that any array with a base element type `bottom` _could_ be a sub type of anything:
https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/blob/d0a265039a36292d87b249af0e8977982e5acc7b/src/hotspot/share/opto/type.cpp#L6462-L6465
But this is only true if the super class is also an array class - but not if `other` (super klass) is an instance klass as in this case.

The fix for this is to first check the immediately following check which handles the case of comparing an array klass to an instance klass: An array klass can only ever be a sub class of an instance klass if it's the `Object` class. But in our case, we ha

## 变更文件

| 文件 | 状态 | +/- |
|------|------|-----|
| src/hotspot/share/opto/graphKit.cpp | modified | +12/-1 |
| src/hotspot/share/opto/type.cpp | modified | +8/-3 |
| test/hotspot/jtreg/compiler/types/TestSubTypeCheckWithBottomArray.java | added | +121/-0 |

## 审查讨论

- **rwestrel**: `TypeInterfaces` has a `contains` method that does `intersection_with` + `eq`. Could we use it here? i.e. `this_one->_interfaces->contains(other->_int
- **chhagedorn**: That would definitely be better but I've seen that there are three other uses of `intersection_with` + `eq`. We should probably update them all togeth
- **rwestrel**: That sounds good to me.

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
