# JDK-8328106: COMPARE_BUILD improvements

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8328106](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8328106) |
| **PR** | [#18279](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18279) |
| **Author** | magicus |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-03-13 |
| **Merged** | 2024-03-14 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | infrastructure |
| **模块** | build |
| **代码变更** | +68 / -29 (5 files) |
| **审查者** | erikj79 (1 人) |

## 描述

This is a collection of various improvements to `COMPARE_BUILD` I have been using lately.

* Introducing `DEBUG_CDS_ARCHIVE` make variable, which is set automatically when using `COMPARE_BUILD`. This will create a detailed log file for the `classes*.jsa` CDS archives creation, to help debug any differences in these files. It is also possible to call `make DEBUG_CDS_ARCHIVE=true` to get this functionality even without running comparisons.

* `otool` on macOS did not include all relevant information.

* We now create modern "unified" diffs using `diff -u` whenever the output is supposed to be seen by the user. For diffs that are processed by the tooling, the traditional style `>`/`<` diffs are still used.

* "Other" files are now getting symlinks as well, to facilitate debugging; and also the diff output is improved.

* Better handling of showing diffs: 

  The `-vv` argument was too verbose. To see diffs, you also were required to see redundant information about unchanged files, which spammed the log.  Now instead you can set `--diffs` to see the diffs but not unchanged files. By default, this is cut after 500 lines, but using `--diffs=full` you can get the whole diffs. Beware that this can cause logs the size of hundereds of MB!

  Now `-vv` is aliased to `-v --diffs`, and `COMPARE_BUILD` is run with `--diffs` instead of `-vv` as default.

* And finally, for some reason (merge error?) the file `compare_exceptions.sh.incl` were not properly removed before, just replaced with an emty file. This is now fixed.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8328106](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8328106): COMPARE_BUILD improvements (**Bug** -

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
