# JDK-8373396: Min and Max Ideal missing AddNode::Ideal optimisations

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8373396](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8373396) |
| **PR** | [#28770](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/28770) |
| **Author** | galderz |
| **Created** | 2025-12-11 |
| **Merged** | 2025-12-18 |
| **审查天数** | 7 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +144 / -0 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | TobiHartmann, eme64, galderz, rwestrel (4 人) |

## 描述

`MaxI` and `MinI` are missing `AddNode::Ideal` optimizations. These optimizations include commutation, flattening, pushing constants...etc. The PR changes `MaxINode::Ideal` and `MinINode::Ideal` to call `AddNode::Ideal`. Long versions already call `AddNode::Ideal` so nothing to change there.

The PR also includes a template framework generated test (cc @eme64) that verifies that all of `AddNode::Ideal` optimizations now apply correctly for min/max for longs and ints. Long tests have been added to validate that both ints and longs produce the same results.

Fixing this issue indirectly fixes `compiler/codegen/TestBooleanVect.java` when run with `-XX:VerifyIterativeGVN=1110`, which was failing due to `min` not having one of those optimisations. However, this PR does not make changes to `PhaseIterGVN::verify_Identity_for` because there are additional failures observed with min/max for integers in JDK-8373134. Therefore, changes there will in the PR for JDK-8373134 instead.

**Update 15.12.25**: `PhaseIterGVN::verify_Ideal_for` exceptions for MinI/MaxI are still needed.

~If you look at `PhaseIterGVN::verify_Ideal_for`, it contains. This looks like it could be removed in this PR as it looks like they were quite likely disabled due to the issue here. However, it's unclear what test was failing here (@eme64 ?):~

```cpp
    // MinINode::Ideal
    // Did not investigate, but there are some patterns that might
    // need more notification.
    case Op_MinI:
    case Op_MaxI: // preemptively removed it as well.
      return false;
```

I've run tier1-3 tests on linux/x64 and they passed.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8373396](https:

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
