# JDK-8373718: jdk/internal/misc/VM/RuntimeArguments.java test fails in Virtual threads mode

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8373718](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8373718) |
| **PR** | [#28935](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/28935) |
| **Author** | bchristi-git |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-12-19 |
| **Merged** | 2026-01-13 |
| **审查天数** | 25 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | runtime/threading |
| **代码变更** | +1 / -0 (1 files) |
| **审查者** | AlanBateman (1 人) |

## 描述

`RuntimeArguments.java` runs with `@requires vm.flagless`, though setting the `test.thread.factory=Virtual` system property with `-D` will still run the test.

The test spawns java processes, checking for particular, exact sets of runtime options (hence, `vm.flagless`). It is not expecting to find `-Dtest.thread.factory=Virtual`.

It doesn't seem important that this test be run with the virtual thread factory. The suggestion of adding this test to `ProblemList-Virtual.txt`  seems reasonable. (It would be a long term resident of the problem list, which is perhaps a bit strange.)

Alternative courses of action:
* Teach the test itself to artificially pass in the presence of `-D` options.
* Enhance the test so it knows how to expect `-D` options; offhand that doesn't seem worth it.

Update:
The bots don't like having the "current" bugid present in the problem list. I have updated the bugid in the PL to 8309303 (when the `VM_OPTIONS` constant was added to the test) - a bit disingenuous. If we're not happy with this, I guess a new issue could be filed ("RuntimeArguments.java doesn't account for -D system properties") to use in the problem list.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8373718](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8373718): jdk/internal/misc/VM/RuntimeArguments.java test fails in Virtual threads mode (**Bug** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Alan Bateman](https://openjdk.org/census#alanb) (@AlanBateman - **Reviewer**)

### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.org/jdk.git pull/28935/head:pull/28935` \
`$ git checkout pull/28935`

Update a local copy of the


> **Backported to**: JDK 25u

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
