# JDK-8373290: Update FreeType to 2.14.1

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8373290](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8373290) |
| **PR** | [#29954](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/29954) |
| **Author** | jayathirthrao |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2026-02-27 |
| **Merged** | 2026-03-03 |
| **审查天数** | 4 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | client-libs |
| **模块** | client |
| **代码变更** | +7332 / -4950 (286 files) |
| **审查者** | azvegint, mrserb, prrace (3 人) |

## 描述

Update FreeType used for font rendering to latest 2.14.1 version.

Newly added files in upstream without which our build fails, so including them:
src/java.desktop/share/native/libfreetype/src/autofit/afadjust.c
src/java.desktop/share/native/libfreetype/src/autofit/afadjust.h

Below files were present in 2.13.2 upstream but our build worked fine without them. But with FreeType 2.14.1 our build fails without these files, so added them also:
src/java.desktop/share/native/libfreetype/src/autofit/ft-hb.c
src/java.desktop/share/native/libfreetype/src/autofit/ft-hb.h

Below files should have been removed in 2.13.2 update itself as they were removed from upstream. So deleted them now:
src/java.desktop/share/native/libfreetype/src/truetype/ttsubpix.c
src/java.desktop/share/native/libfreetype/src/truetype/ttsubpix.h

With this FreeType 2.14.1 update we saw [JDK-8378623](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8378623) test issue which is already resolved.

While CI testing one more test(javax/swing/text/html/CSS/8231286/HtmlFontSizeTest.java) failure was observed only on Oracle Linux 10. After FreeType update the ratio of width calculated in this test is "1.3757962" in our Oracle Linux 10 machines and it is rounding off to "1.4" and not the "1.3" value as expected in this test. Taking the average ratio out of both width and height for a larger font will give result in values near to the ideal "1.3" ratio. After making this test more robust it passes on all versions of all platforms in our CI. javax/swing/text/html/CSS/8231286/HtmlFontSizeTest.java update is also included in this PR.

After above test updates, overall testing is green with FreeType 2.14.1 update.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Co

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
