# JDK-8326447: jpackage creates Windows installers that cannot be signed

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8326447](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8326447) |
| **PR** | [#23732](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/23732) |
| **Author** | alexeysemenyukoracle |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-02-22 |
| **Merged** | 2025-02-25 |
| **审查天数** | 3 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | tools |
| **代码变更** | +463 / -199 (7 files) |
| **审查者** | sashamatveev (1 人) |

## 描述

Support the use of a custom msi wrapper executable when building an exe installer.

Put `installer.exe` file in the resource directory and jpackage will use it instead of the default `msiwrapper.exe` resource for exe installer.

To test this feature created a test that builds exe installer with a custom icon. The result installer exe is used as a custom msi wrapper executable in the second jpackage command that builds exe installer with the default icon. The installer exe produced by the second jackage command should have the same icon as the exe installer created in the first jpackage run.

Moved code verifying icons in executables from `LauncherIconVerifier.WinIconVerifier` class into `WinExecutableIconVerifier` class to make it available for tests. Replaced inline powershell script extracting icons from executables with standalone `read-executable-icon.ps1` powershell script. The script uses `ExtractIcon` instead of `ExtractAssociatedIcon`. It extracts icon from the executable's resources and will not fall back to anything if there is no icon resource.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Warning
&nbsp;⚠️ Found leading lowercase letter in issue title for `8326447: jpackage creates Windows installers that cannot be signed`

### Issue
 * [JDK-8326447](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8326447): jpackage creates Windows installers that cannot be signed (**Bug** - P3)


### Reviewers
 * [Alexander Matveev](https://openjdk.org/census#almatvee) (@sashamatveev - **Reviewer**)

### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.org/jdk.git pull/23732/head:pull/23732` \
`$ git checkout p

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
