# JDK-8290833: Remove ConstantPoolCache::walk_entries_for_initialization()

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8290833](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8290833) |
| **PR** | [#9759](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/9759) |
| **Author** | iklam |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-08-04 |
| **Merged** | 2022-08-11 |
| **审查天数** | 7 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +124 / -85 (9 files) |
| **审查者** | calvinccheung, coleenp, iklam (3 人) |

## 描述

**Background:**

`ConstantPoolCache::walk_entries_for_initialization()` is called by `ConstantPoolCache::remove_unshareable_info()` to restore the CpCache to the state immediately after the class has been rewritten by the Rewriter (which happens during the class linking phase). In most part, this means the `ConstantPoolCacheEntry`'s need to be zeroed. However, the `_f2` fields of some of the entries are initialized to be non-zero by the Rewriter and must be preserved.

The reason `walk_entries_for_initialization()` exists is that after `Rewriter::rewrite()` has finished, some information about what is stored inside the CpCache is discarded (e.g., `Rewriter::_invokedynamic_references_map`). As a result, we cannot easily determine which entries has a `_f2` field that need to be preserved. We must walk all the bytecodes in all the methods of this class to recompute this information.

This is awkward and time consuming. It also needs to be updated if the `Rewriter` ever changes.

Also, for future optimizations, we may need to pre-resolve a subset of the CpCache entries during CDS dump time. Trying to make that work alongside `walk_entries_for_initialization()` seems too complicated.

**Fix:**

Store a copy of the CpCache after rewritting. Use this to revert the CpCache's state inside  `ConstantPoolCache::remove_unshareable_info()`.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8290833](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8290833): Remove ConstantPoolCache::walk_entries_for_initialization()


### Reviewers
 * [Coleen Phillimore](https://openjdk.org/census#coleenp) (@coleenp - **Reviewer**) ⚠️ Review applies to [eb99170b](https://git.openjdk.org/jdk/pul

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
