# JDK-8324241: Always record evol_method deps to avoid excessive method flushing

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8324241](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8324241) |
| **PR** | [#17509](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/17509) |
| **Author** | simonis |
| **组织** | Amazon |
| **Created** | 2024-01-20 |
| **Merged** | 2024-01-26 |
| **审查天数** | 6 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +31 / -11 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | coleenp, dean-long, eastig, phohensee, rose00, shipilev, simonis (7 人) |

## 描述

Currently we don't record dependencies on redefined methods (i.e. `evol_method` dependencies) in JIT compiled methods if none of the `can_redefine_classes`, `can_retransform_classes` or `can_generate_breakpoint_events` JVMTI capabalities is set. This means that if a JVMTI agent which requests one of these capabilities is dynamically attached, all the methods which have been JIT compiled until that point, will be marked for deoptimization and flushed from the code cache. For large, warmed-up applications this mean deoptimization and instant recompilation of thousands if not then-thousands of methods, which can lead to dramatic performance/latency drop-downs for several minutes.

One could argue that dynamic agent attach is now deprecated anyway (see [JEP 451: Prepare to Disallow the Dynamic Loading of Agents](https://openjdk.org/jeps/451)) and this problem could be solved by making the recording of `evol_method` dependencies dependent on the new `-XX:+EnableDynamicAgentLoading` flag isntead of the concrete JVMTI capabilities (because the presence of the flag indicates that an agent will be loaded eventually).

But there a single, however important exception to this rule and that's JFR. JFR is advertised as low overhead profiler which can be enabled in production at any time. However, when JFR is started dynamically (e.g. through JCMD or JMX) it will silently load a HotSpot internl JVMTI agent which requests the `can_retransform_classes` and retransforms some classes. This will inevitably trigger the deoptimization of all compiled methods as described above.

I'd therefor like to propose to *always* and unconditionally record `evol_method` dependencies in JIT compiled code by exporting the relevant properties right at startup in `init_globals()`:
```c++
 jint init_globals() {
   management_init();
   JvmtiExport::initialize_oop_storage();
+#if INCLUDE_JVMTI
+  JvmtiExport::set_can_hotswap_or_post_breakpoint(true);
+  JvmtiExport::set_all_dependencies_are_

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
