# JDK-8247514: Improve clhsdb 'findpc' ability to determine what an address points to by improving PointerFinder and PointerLo

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8247514](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8247514) |
| **PR** | [#2111](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/2111) |
| **Author** | plummercj |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-01-17 |
| **Merged** | 2021-02-12 |
| **审查天数** | 26 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +284 / -54 (5 files) |
| **审查者** | YaSuenag, kevinjwalls, plummercj (3 人) |

## 描述

See the bug for most details. A few notes here about some implementation details:

In the `PointerLocation` class, I added more consistency w.r.t. whether or not a newline is printed. It used to for some address types, but not others. Now it always does. And if you see a comment something like the following:

`         getTLAB().printOn(tty); // includes "\n" `

That's just clarifying whether or not the `printOn()` method called will include the newline. Some do and some don't, and knowing what the various `printOn()` methods do makes getting the proper inclusion of the newline easier to understand.

I added `verbose` and `printAddress` boolean arguments to `PointerLocation.printOn()`. Currently they are always `true`. The false arguments will be used when I complete [JDK-8250801](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8250801), which will use `PointerFinder/Location` to show what each register points to.

The CR mentions that the main motivation for this work is for eventual replacement of the old clhsdb `whatis` command, which was implemented in javascript. It used to resolve DSO symbols, whereas `findpc` did not. The `whatis` code did this with the following:

```
  var dso = loadObjectContainingPC(addr);
  if (dso == null) {
    return ptrLoc.toString();
  }
  var sym = dso.closestSymbolToPC(addr);
  if (sym != null) {
    return sym.name + '+' + sym.offset;
  }
```
And now you'll see something similar in the PointerFinder code:

```
        loc.loadObject = cdbg.loadObjectContainingPC(a);
        if (loc.loadObject != null) {
            loc.nativeSymbol = loc.loadObject.closestSymbolToPC(a);
            return loc;
        } 
```
Note that now that `findpc` does everything that `whatis` used to (and more), we don't really need to add a java version of `whatis`, but I'll probably do so anyway just help out people who are used to using the `whatis` command. That will be done using [JDK-8244670](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/brows

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
