# JDK-8315884: New Object to ObjectMonitor mapping

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8315884](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8315884) |
| **PR** | [#20067](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/20067) |
| **Author** | xmas92 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-07-08 |
| **Merged** | 2024-08-16 |
| **审查天数** | 39 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | runtime/threading |
| **代码变更** | +3284 / -911 (68 files) |
| **审查者** | coleenp, mur47x111, rkennke, theRealAph, xmas92 (5 人) |

## 描述

When inflating a monitor the `ObjectMonitor*` is written directly over the `markWord` and any overwritten data is displaced into a displaced `markWord`. This is problematic for concurrent GCs which needs extra care or looser semantics to use this displaced data. In Lilliput this data also contains the klass forcing this to be something that the GC has to take into account everywhere.

This patch introduces an alternative solution where locking only uses the lock bits of the `markWord` and inflation does not override and displace the `markWord`. This is done by keeping associations between objects and `ObjectMonitor*` in an external hash table. Different caching techniques are used to speedup lookups from compiled code.

A diagnostic VM option is introduced called `UseObjectMonitorTable`. It is only supported in combination with the LM_LIGHTWEIGHT locking mode (the default). 

This patch has been evaluated to be performance neutral when `UseObjectMonitorTable` is turned off (the default). 

Below is a more detailed explanation of this change and how `LM_LIGHTWEIGHT` and `UseObjectMonitorTable` works.

# Cleanups

Cleaned up displaced header usage for:
  * BasicLock
    * Contains some Zero changes
    * Renames one exported JVMCI field
  * ObjectMonitor
    * Updates comments and tests consistencies

# Refactoring

`ObjectMonitor::enter` has been refactored an a `ObjectMonitorContentionMark` witness object has been introduced to the signatures. Which signals that the contentions reference counter is being held. More details are given below in the section about deflation.

The initial purpose of this was to allow `UseObjectMonitorTable` to interact more seamlessly with the `ObjectMonitor::enter` code. 

_There is even more `ObjectMonitor` refactoring which can be done here to create a more understandable and enforceable API. There are a handful of invariants / assumptions which are not always explicitly asserted which could be trivially abstra

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
