# JDK-8257197: Add additional verification code to PhaseCCP

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8257197](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8257197) |
| **PR** | [#11529](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/11529) |
| **Author** | eme64 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-12-06 |
| **Merged** | 2022-12-09 |
| **审查天数** | 3 |
| **版本** | JDK 20 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +52 / -0 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | TobiHartmann, chhagedorn, eme64, vnkozlov (4 人) |

## 描述

We have had many bugs that could be tracked back to missing optimizations during PhaseCCP.
Often the problem is that a node `x` has an input (of input of input) `y` which is modified, but `y` does not notify `x` (does not push it to the worklist). For one this is a missed opportunity to optimize, but it can also lead to failed assumptions later: often we assume that all that can be optimize is already optimized.
This verification helps us debug faster, and can also help when `Value` optimizations suddenly do further-reaching traversals, which would require further-reaching notifications.

Sadly, the verification is not total: we have some exceptions. Especially for `LoadNode`, which perform a walk up the memory inputs, which can go arbitrarily far, to look for relates `StoreNode`s. Notification would thus have to put very many nodes on the worklist. The question is if the potential additional optimization is worth the compile-time. If we decided yes, then one we might want to implement a listener-style notification: when a node visits inputs during `Value`, it could subscribe to all (or the relevant) visited input-nodes for future updates. Currently, we just mostly do fixed 1-hop or 2-hop notification of output nodes.

FYI: I plan to do a similar verification, and a refactoring of `PhaseCCP::push_child_nodes_to_worklist` and `PhaseIterGVN::add_users_to_worklist` in [JDK-8298094](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8298094).

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8257197](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8257197): Add additional verification code to PhaseCCP


### Reviewers
 * [Christian Hagedorn](https://openjdk.org/census#chagedorn) (@chhaged

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
