# JDK-8257466: Improve enum iteration

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8257466](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8257466) |
| **PR** | [#1530](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/1530) |
| **Author** | kimbarrett |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2020-12-01 |
| **Merged** | 2020-12-03 |
| **审查天数** | 2 |
| **版本** | JDK 16 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +179 / -22 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | iklam, kimbarrett, lfoltan (3 人) |

## 描述

Please review this collection of improvements to the recently added enum
iteration facility. These improvements are based on usage in some
in-development changes.

(1) Added EnumType nested type to EnumRange and EnumIterator. It is an alias
for the enum type that is a template parameter for those classes. This is
useful when dealing with a range or iterator whose associated enum type is
not known because the range/iterator is a template parameter.

(2) Added EnumRange<T>::index(T), which converts the argument enumerator to
a zero-based index into the range of values. This is useful when mapping
from an enumerator to a corresponding array index, for example.

(3) Allow enum range bounds to be specified using start and (exclusive) end
integral (underlying type) values. This is useful when dealing with enums
that are just value ranges and don't have named enumerators. As part of
this, changes the enum iteration traits mechanism to use start/end rather
than first/last, as that seems to be a little easier to deal with.

(4) Added accessors for the first and last enumerator values of a range.

(5) Added gtest for enum iteration.

Testing: tier1

/label hotspot

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8257466](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8257466): Improve enum iteration


### Reviewers
 * [Ioi Lam](https://openjdk.java.net/census#iklam) (@iklam - **Reviewer**) ⚠️ Review applies to 6911c0faf1a4c7b3a4bcc0f437ab93c89ef27161
 * [Lois Foltan](https://openjdk.java.net/census#lfoltan) (@lfoltan - **Reviewer**) ⚠️ Review applies to 6911c0faf1a4c7b3a4bcc0f437ab93c89ef27161


### Download
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk pull/1530/head:pull/1530`
`$ git checkout pull/1530`

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
