# JDK-8327109: Refactor data graph cloning used in create_new_if_for_predicate() into separate class

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8327109](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8327109) |
| **PR** | [#18080](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18080) |
| **Author** | chhagedorn |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-03-01 |
| **Merged** | 2024-03-13 |
| **审查天数** | 12 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +103 / -65 (5 files) |
| **审查者** | TobiHartmann, chhagedorn, eme64 (3 人) |

## 描述

In the review process of https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/16877, we identified an existing issue in `create_bool_from_template_assertion_predicate()` which is also still present in the refactoring of https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/16877: In rare cases, we could endlessly re-process nodes in the DFS walk since a visited set is missing. This needs to be addressed.

#### Redo refactoring of `create_bool_from_template_assertion_predicate()`
On top of that bug, the refactored version of https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/16877 is still quite complicated to understand since it tries to do multiple steps simultaneously. We've decided to redo the refactoring and better separate the steps to simplify the algorithm. By doing so, we also want to fix the existing bug. This work is split into three separate RFEs (JDK-8327109, JDK-8327110, and JDK-8327111).

#### Share data graph cloning code - start from existing code 
This first PR starts with the existing code found in `clone_nodes_with_same_ctrl()` which is called by `create_new_if_for_predicate()`. `clone_nodes_with_same_ctrl()` already does the data graph cloning in 3 separate steps which can be used as foundation:

1. Collect data nodes to clone by using a node filter
2. Clone the collected nodes (their data and control inputs still point to the old nodes)
3. Fix the cloned data node inputs pointing to the old nodes to the cloned inputs by using an old->new mapping. In this pass, also fix the control inputs of any pinned data node from the old uncommon projection to the new one.

#### Shared data graph cloning class
Some of these steps above are shared with the data graph cloning done in `create_bool_from_template_assertion_predicate()` (refactored in JDK-8327110 and JDK-8327111). We therefore extract them in this patch such that we can reuse it in the refactoring for `create_bool_from_template_assertion_predicate()` later. We create a new `DataNodeGraph` class which does the following (to be shared)

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
