# JDK-8354954: Typed static memory for late initialization of static class members in Hotspot

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8354954](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8354954) |
| **PR** | [#24689](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/24689) |
| **Author** | johan-sjolen |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-04-16 |
| **Merged** | 2025-05-05 |
| **审查天数** | 19 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +88 / -10 (5 files) |
| **审查者** | JornVernee, TheShermanTanker, johan-sjolen, kimbarrett, merykitty, stefank (6 人) |

## 描述

Hi,

This PR introduces a `StableValue<T>` which is sized and aligned identically to a `T`, with the difference that a `StableValue<T>` needs to be explicitly instantiated.

Dynamic static initalization in C++ leads to unpredictable bugs as there is no defined order in which objects will be initialized, to the degree that 'static initialization fiasco' is a term used. In the code I've worked on in Hotspot we resolve this by having an initialization function, and instead of having static members of `T` we have `T*` instead and use `malloc` in order to gain the memory for the objects. This is workable, but is unnecessary.

That's why I'd like to have `StableValue<T>`. It let's you avoid the whole `malloc` thing, and we overload `->` to make it behave as if it is actually a `T`. We add in a simple checker in debug mode that checks whether the memory has been initialized before using it.

In the code I've switched two members to be of `StableValue` instead. One is the malloc case above, the second (MemBaseline) is one where I got a bug while developing. The bug occurred because I  changed the initializer of `MemBaseline` without knowing that it was dynamic-static-allocated, and the exact change I made caused weird crashes (because of initialization order issues).

This solution is quite practical to me, but I wanted to know what others think.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8354954](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8354954): Typed static memory for late initialization of static class members in Hotspot (**Enhancement** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Quan Anh Mai](https://openjdk.org/census#qamai) (@merykitty - Committer)
 * [Kim Barrett](htt

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
