# JDK-8330144: Revise os::free_memory()

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8330144](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8330144) |
| **PR** | [#20080](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/20080) |
| **Author** | roberttoyonaga |
| **Created** | 2024-07-08 |
| **Merged** | 2024-07-18 |
| **审查天数** | 10 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +38 / -20 (10 files) |
| **审查者** | MBaesken, roberttoyonaga, tstuefe (3 人) |

## 描述

### Summary
On linux, change `os::free_memory(char *addr, size_t bytes, size_t alignment_hint)` so that it uses `madvise(MADV_DONTNEED)` (similar to the BSD implementation) instead of recommitting over the existing committed memory to discard the existing pages. This function should free the underlying memory without uncommitting.  The benefit of this change is that we can get rid of conditional logic dependent on whether we're dealing with huge pages, `madvise` can't fail, and we can also get rid of the "alignment_hint" parameter. 

`os::free_memory(char *addr, size_t bytes, size_t alignment_hint)` has also been renamed to `os::disclaim_memory(char *addr, size_t bytes)` to differentiate it from `os::free_memory()` which reports the size of free memory instead of actually releasing memory.  

**Transparent huge pages:**
`madvise(MADV_DONTNEED)` works with THP. As with small pages, `madvise(MADV_DONTNEED)` results in the memory being freed, RSS decreasing, and the addresses can be re-touched without being explicitly recommitted.

To determine this, I set /sys/kernel/mm/transparent_hugepage/enabled to "always" and allocated a large amount of memory. Then /proc/PID/smaps shows that THP are being used to back that memory. After calling `disclaim_memory`, RSS decreases indicating the memory is no longer live. The `os::committed_in_range function` also reports that the memory has been freed (This function should probably be renamed to `live_in_range`). Touching the addresses again afterward is fine as well. 

**Explicit huge pages:**
`madvise(MADV_DONTNEED)` does not result in memory being freed when used on explicit huge pages. However, the pages are not lost either. Additionally, after `madvise(MADV_DONTNEED)`, we can retouch the addresses without any problems. In conclusion, `madvise(MADV_DONTNEED)` has no affect on huge pages. This means the behavior of of this function with respect to huge pages remains the same. We can remove the "alignment_hint" paramete

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
