# JDK-8330275: Crash in XMark::follow_array

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8330275](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8330275) |
| **PR** | [#18941](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18941) |
| **Author** | ashu-mehra |
| **组织** | IBM |
| **Created** | 2024-04-24 |
| **Merged** | 2024-05-08 |
| **审查天数** | 14 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P2 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +10 / -6 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | ashu-mehra, stefank, tstuefe (3 人) |

## 描述

This PR addresses the issue in ZGC where the number of address offset bits can go beyond the limit imposed by the encoding scheme in mark stack, thereby causing the encoding to fail.
Encoding of partial array offset in mark stack requires that the max address bit be no more than 46 bit. ~~But the current mechanism to probe maximum address offset bits on aarch64, riscv and ppc platforms can return value larger that 44 bits. This patch sets the maximum address offset bits to 44.~~

~~I have updated the generational mode to avoid subtracting 3 bits from the maximum address offset bit probed by the system, as the generational mode does not use multi-mapping.~~

~~I have also updated the code to set MarkPartialArrayMinSizeShift dynamically depending on the number of address offset bits used. This would avoid running into such problem again if in future maximum address offset bits is increased beyond 44.~~

~~For some reason (that I can't comprehend from the code) the existing implementation for probing the max addressable bit for ppc in non-generation ZGC is very different from other platforms and from generational mode as well. I have kept the existing implementation as is and just fixed it to ensure it does not return value greater than 44 bits.~~

Testing: ~~test/hotspot/jtreg/gc/z and test/hotspot/jtreg/gc/x on x86~~ tier1, tier2 and tier3 on aarch64 using fastdebug build with options JTREG="EXTRA_PROBLEM_LISTS=ProblemList-zgc.txt;JAVA_OPTIONS=-XX:+UseZGC -XX:+ZVerifyOops;JOBS=4"  (as per the suggestion in [JDK-8330275](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8330275?focusedId=14667864&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels:comment-tabpanel#comment-14667864))

Update: Striked out the changes that are not relevant now that it is only doing a point fix for aarch64

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at

## 变更文件

| 文件 | 状态 | +/- |
|------|------|-----|
| src/hotspot/cpu/aarch64/gc/x/xGlobals_aarch64.cpp | modified | +5/-3 |
| src/hotspot/cpu/aarch64/gc/z/zAddress_aarch64.cpp | modified | +5/-3 |

## 审查讨论

- **tstuefe**: any reason you removed the comment for MINIMUM_MAX_ADDRESS_BIT?
- **ashu-mehra**: oh! I think I misunderstood stefank's suggestion. I should have just removed the values 64GB and 128TB mentioned in the comment. Let me restore the re
- **stefank**: This comment was copy-n-pasted without updating the names to ZForwardingEntry and ZMarkStackEntry.

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
