# JDK-8183390: Fix and re-enable post loop vectorization

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8183390](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8183390) |
| **PR** | [#6828](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/6828) |
| **Author** | pfustc |
| **组织** | Independent |
| **Created** | 2021-12-14 |
| **Merged** | 2022-04-05 |
| **审查天数** | 112 |
| **版本** | JDK 18 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +4571 / -329 (40 files) |
| **审查者** | TobiHartmann, pfustc, rwestrel, vnkozlov (4 人) |

## 描述

### Background

Post loop vectorization is a C2 compiler optimization in an experimental
VM feature called PostLoopMultiversioning. It transforms the range-check
eliminated post loop to a 1-iteration vectorized loop with vector mask.
This optimization was contributed by Intel in 2016 to support x86 AVX512
masked vector instructions. However, it was disabled soon after an issue
was found. Due to insufficient maintenance in these years, multiple bugs
have been accumulated inside. But we (Arm) still think this is a useful
framework for vector mask support in C2 auto-vectorized loops, for both
x86 AVX512 and AArch64 SVE. Hence, we propose this to fix and re-enable
post loop vectorization.

### Changes in this patch

This patch reworks post loop vectorization. The most significant change
is removing vector mask support in C2 x86 backend and re-implementing
it in the mid-end. With this, we can re-enable post loop vectorization
for platforms other than x86.

Previous implementation hard-codes x86 k1 register as a reserved AVX512
opmask register and defines two routines (setvectmask/restorevectmask)
to set and restore the value of k1. But after [JDK-8211251](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8211251) which encodes
AVX512 instructions as unmasked by default, generated vector masks are
no longer used in AVX512 vector instructions. To fix incorrect codegen
and add vector mask support for more platforms, we turn to add a vector
mask input to C2 mid-end IRs. Specifically, we use a VectorMaskGenNode
to generate a mask and replace all Load/Store nodes in the post loop
into LoadVectorMasked/StoreVectorMasked nodes with that mask input. This
IR form is exactly the same to those which are used in VectorAPI mask
support. For now, we only add mask inputs for Load/Store nodes because
we don't have reduction operations supported in post loop vectorization.
After this change, the x86 k1 register is no longer reserved and can be
allocated when PostLo

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
