# JDK-8309271: A way to align already compiled methods with compiler directives

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8309271](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8309271) |
| **PR** | [#14111](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/14111) |
| **Author** | dchuyko |
| **Created** | 2023-05-24 |
| **Merged** | 2024-03-14 |
| **审查天数** | 295 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler |
| **代码变更** | +378 / -33 (15 files) |
| **审查者** | apangin, dchuyko, sspitsyn, tobiasholenstein (4 人) |

## 描述

Compiler Control (https://openjdk.org/jeps/165) provides method-context dependent control of the JVM compilers (C1 and C2). The active directive stack is built from the directive files passed with the `-XX:CompilerDirectivesFile` diagnostic command-line option and the Compiler.add_directives diagnostic command. It is also possible to clear all directives or remove the top from the stack.

A matching directive will be applied at method compilation time when such compilation is started. If directives are added or changed, but compilation does not start, then the state of compiled methods doesn't correspond to the rules. This is not an error, and it happens in long running applications when directives are added or removed after compilation of methods that could be matched. For example, the user decides that C2 compilation needs to be disabled for some method due to a compiler bug, issues such a directive but this does not affect the application behavior. In such case, the target application needs to be restarted, and such an operation can have high costs and risks. Another goal is testing/debugging compilers.

It would be convenient to optionally reconcile at least existing matching nmethods to the current stack of compiler directives (so bypass inlined methods).

Natural way to eliminate the discrepancy between the result of compilation and the broken rule is to discard the compilation result, i.e. deoptimization. Prior to that we can try to re-compile the method letting compile broker to perform it taking new directives stack into account. Re-compilation helps to prevent hot methods from execution in the interpreter.

A new flag `-r` has beed introduced for some directives related to compile commands: `Compiler.add_directives`, `Compiler.remove_directives`, `Compiler.clear_directives`. The default behavior has not changed (no flag). If the new flag is present, the command scans already compiled methods and puts methods that have any active non-default matchin

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
