# JDK-8309463: IGV: Dynamic graph layout algorithm

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8309463](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8309463) |
| **PR** | [#14349](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/14349) |
| **Author** | emmyyin |
| **Created** | 2023-06-07 |
| **Merged** | 2023-08-29 |
| **审查天数** | 83 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +1767 / -90 (14 files) |
| **审查者** | chhagedorn, emmyyin, robcasloz, tobiasholenstein (4 人) |

## 描述

### Purpose

IGV currently uses a static layout algorithm to visualize graphs. However, this is problematic due to the use cases of IGV. Most often, the graphs that are visualized are dynamic, meaning the graphs change over time. A dynamic graph can be thought of as a sequence of graphs where a given graph in the sequence is the state of the dynamic graph at that point in time. Static layout algorithms do not account for the rest of the sequence when visualizing a given graph. On one hand, it makes each layout more readable. But on the other hand, the layout for two consecutive graphs in the sequence can be vastly different even though the difference between the graphs is small. This makes it difficult to identify the changes that has occurred to the graph and can damage the internal understanding of the graph that the viewer has obtained. A dynamic layout algorithm takes the changes into account when visualizing a graph. To enhance IGV, such an algorithm has been implemented in this PR.

The layout drawn by the static layout algorithm is called "sea of nodes", while the layout drawn by the dynamic algorithm is called "stable sea of nodes".

The difference between the algorithms is illustrated in the following video:


https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/assets/52547536/35023362-a191-425e-b066-c7474db631f1


This work is the result of my Master's thesis which can be found [here](https://kth.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:1770643/FULLTEXT01.pdf).


### Implementation

The algorithm is based on update actions that are applied incrementally to a graph layout in order to obtain the layout of the next graph in the sequence. By doing so, the nodes that appears in both graphs remain in their relative positions. A new layout manager called `HierarchicalStableLayoutManager` has been added which holds the core algorithm. The corresponding layout manager with the static layout algorithm is called `HierarchicalLayoutManager`.

If no layouts have been drawn yet, t

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
