# JDK-8309880: Add support for linking libffi on Windows and Mac

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8309880](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8309880) |
| **PR** | [#14446](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/14446) |
| **Author** | JornVernee |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-06-13 |
| **Merged** | 2023-06-14 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | infrastructure |
| **模块** | build |
| **代码变更** | +126 / -30 (7 files) |
| **审查者** | JornVernee, erikj79 (2 人) |

## 描述

Update the make/autoconf/lib-ffi.m4 script to support using libffi on Windows and Mac.

For Windows I had to tweak `fallbackLinker.c` to be able to build: there was an import of `stdint.h` missing, and since it was using `WSAGetLastError` it needed to link against `ws2_32.lib`.

This PR also contains a fix originally made by @shipilev as part  of: https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/13827 (with a minor tweak), in order to be able to build the fallback linker on mac correctly. I also disabled 3 tests that were failing when using the (libffi-based) fallback linker on that platform.

---

I've updated the `createLibffiBundle.sh` script for Mac, since I got it to work with a devkit, but I didn't manage to do the same for Windows. The steps I took to make my Windows libffi bundle were as follows:
1. run 'x64 Native Tools Command Prompt for VS 2022'. cl.exe and link.exe should be on path
2. run `ucrt64` (this is one of the shell environments that comes with MSYS2). This should carry over the environment set up by the VS dev prompt.
3. then, in the libffi repo root folder:
  3.a run `autogen.sh`
  3.b run:
```
bash configure \
  CC="/path/to/libffi/msvcc.sh -m64" \
  CXX="/path/to/libffi/msvcc.sh -m64" \
  CPPFLAGS="-DFFI_BUILDING_DLL" \
  --disable-docs \
  --prefix=<install dest>
```
(`<install dest>` can be whatever you like. That's what you point `--with-libffi` to).

4. run `make install`. This should create the `<intstall dest>` directory with the files: `include/ffi.h`, `include/ffitarget.h`, `lib/libffi.dll`. It also creates a `lib/libffi.lib` file, but it is of the wrong file type, `DLL` rather than `LIBRARY`.
5. Manually create a working `.lib` file:
  5.a use `dumpbin /exports libffi.dll` to get a list of exported symbols
  5.b put them in a `libffi.def` file: `EXPORTS` on the first line, then a symbol on each line following
  5.c run `lib /def:libffi.def /machine:x64 /out:libffi.lib` to create the right `.lib` file (`lib` is a visual

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
