# JDK-8264762: ByteBuffer.byteOrder(BIG_ENDIAN).asXBuffer.put(Xarray) and ByteBuffer.byteOrder(nativeOrder()).asXBuffer.put(Xa

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8264762](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8264762) |
| **PR** | [#3660](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/3660) |
| **Author** | bplb |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-04-23 |
| **Merged** | 2021-04-29 |
| **审查天数** | 6 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs |
| **代码变更** | +108 / -203 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | AlanBateman, ChrisHegarty, PaulSandoz, bplb, turbanoff (5 人) |

## 描述

Please consider this request to accelerate absolute and relative bulk array transfer on views of heap byte buffers where the element size is greater than one. What currently happens is that the transfer devolves to a “loopy” element-by-element copy such as
```
        int end = offset + length;
        for (int i = offset, j = index; i < end; i++, j++)
            dst[i] = get(j);
```
for `get()`, and
```
        int end = offset + length;
        for (int i = offset, j = index; i < end; i++, j++)
            this.put(j, src[i]);
```
for `put()`. This is of course relatively slow.

The change proposed hoists the accelerated versions of these methods using the `ScopedMemoryAccess` methods `copyMemory()` and `copySwapMemory()` from `Direct-X-Buffer` to `X-Buffer`. The array bulk transfer methods are removed from `Direct-X-Buffer` itself. The number of lines of code in the templates decreases by 87.

With this change the throughput of array bulk `put()` and `get()` for heap view buffers is increased by a factor of 6 to 11 compared with the current code. The performance of direct view buffers does not appear to be affected.

No tests are modified or added as existing tests already cover these methods. All tests in CI tiers 1-3 passed on all platforms.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8264762](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8264762): ByteBuffer.byteOrder(BIG_ENDIAN).asXBuffer.put(Xarray) and ByteBuffer.byteOrder(nativeOrder()).asXBuffer.put(Xarray) are slow


### Reviewers
 * [Alan Bateman](https://openjdk.java.net/census#alanb) (@AlanBateman - **Reviewer**)
 * [Paul Sandoz](https://openjdk.java.net/census#psandoz) (@PaulSandoz - **Reviewer**) ⚠️ Review applies to 719b8d84adffc1caa8d4c84b6968f0f091f735ec
 *

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
