# JDK-8259446: runtime/jni/checked/TestCheckedReleaseArrayElements.java fails with stderr not empty

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8259446](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8259446) |
| **PR** | [#2001](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/2001) |
| **Author** | dholmes-ora |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-01-08 |
| **Merged** | 2021-01-08 |
| **审查天数** | 0 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P2 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +7 / -4 (1 files) |
| **审查者** | dholmes-ora (1 人) |

## 描述

The test checks stderr is empty.
The test is run in our tier3 CI testing.
Tier3 (and some other tiers) has a configuration that includes the -showversion flag which outputs the version string to stderr.

=> ergo the test fails because stderr is not empty!

Fix: exec the secondary VM without including the jtreg test VM arguments.

I think this is really a bug in our test job definitions and we've been very lucky to not encounter problems with using `-showversion`, but as a quick fix this suffices, and we don't expect any other JVM flags to have any impact here.

Tested by running jtreg with/without -showversion being passed to JVM under test.
Tier3 test run in progress too.
Thanks.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8259446](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8259446): runtime/jni/checked/TestCheckedReleaseArrayElements.java fails with stderr not empty


### Reviewers
 * [Daniel D. Daugherty](https://openjdk.java.net/census#dcubed) (@dcubed-ojdk - **Reviewer**)


### Download
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk pull/2001/head:pull/2001`
`$ git checkout pull/2001`

## 变更文件

| 文件 | 状态 | +/- |
|------|------|-----|
| ...spot/jtreg/runtime/jni/checked/TestCheckedReleaseArrayElements.java | modified | +7/-4 |

## 审查讨论

- **dcubed-ojdk**: I would add a comment above L51: // Uses executeProcess() instead of executeTestJvm() to avoid passing options // that might generate output on stde
- **dholmes-ora**: Done.

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
