# JDK-8263361: Incorrect arraycopy stub selected by C2 for SATB collectors

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8263361](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8263361) |
| **PR** | [#3008](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/3008) |
| **Author** | neliasso |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-03-15 |
| **Merged** | 2021-03-17 |
| **审查天数** | 2 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P2 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +42 / -33 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | fisk, iwanowww, neliasso (3 人) |

## 描述

This bug has only been reproduced with -XX:+StressReflectiveCode and -XX:-ReduceInitialCardMarks. If StressReflectiveCode is necessary isn't obvious.

I am fixing three things:

1) When running with ReduceInitialCardMarks enabled the stubroutines for int- or long-arraycopy will be used for arraycopies to tightly allocated arrays (like when cloning). With ReduceInitialCardMarks disabled the oop-version will be used with barriers.

The generate_arraycopy method in PhaseMacroExpand have a bool dest_uninitialized field - but that field denotes that we have proven that no zeroing is necessary (since all fields will be written anyway). 

To fix this bug generate_unchecked_arraycopy with the param dest_uninitialized will need to be appended with a check for tighly coupled object-copies when ReduceInitialCardMarks is disabled.

2) I also fix a bug in library_call kit where arraycopy for clones doesn't get marked as tightly coupled - The call to tightly_coupled_allocation can't be used when the IR isn't constructed yet.

3) In stubroutines.cpp I fix so that the name of the arraycopy stubroutines gets appended with _uninit when appropriate. This shows up in ir-dumps and IGV.

Please review,
Nils Eliasson

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8263361](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8263361): Incorrect arraycopy stub selected by C2 for SATB collectors


### Reviewers
 * [Erik Österlund](https://openjdk.java.net/census#eosterlund) (@fisk - **Reviewer**)
 * [Vladimir Ivanov](https://openjdk.java.net/census#vlivanov) (@iwanowww - **Reviewer**)


### Download
To checkout this PR locally:
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk pull/3008/head:pull/3008`
`$ git checkout pull/3008`

To update a local copy of the PR:
`$ git

## 变更文件

| 文件 | 状态 | +/- |
|------|------|-----|
| src/hotspot/share/opto/library_call.cpp | modified | +2/-2 |
| src/hotspot/share/opto/macroArrayCopy.cpp | modified | +38/-29 |
| src/hotspot/share/runtime/stubRoutines.cpp | modified | +2/-2 |

## 审查讨论

- **fisk**: I wonder if you can just adjust the way that dest_uninitialized is computed way above to unconditionally check if ac->is_alloc_tightly_coupled(), so t
- **neliasso**: There is a bit of a conceptual disconnect in the code. In generate_arraycopy dest_uninitialized is set only when the allocation isn't already "complet
- **iwanowww**: > I also fix a bug in library_call kit where arraycopy for clones doesn't get marked as tightly coupled - The call to tightly_coupled_allocation can't

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
