# JDK-8374644: Regression in GZIPInputStream performance after JDK-7036144

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8374644](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8374644) |
| **PR** | [#29092](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/29092) |
| **Author** | jaikiran |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2026-01-07 |
| **Merged** | 2026-01-09 |
| **审查天数** | 2 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P2 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.io |
| **代码变更** | +48 / -8 (1 files) |
| **审查者** | AlanBateman, LanceAndersen, jaikiran (3 人) |

## 描述

Can I please get a review of this change which proposes to address a performance regression in `java.util.zip.GZIPInputStream`? 

In JDK 23, we updated `GZIPInputStream` to no longer rely on `InputStream.available()` method when determining if a `InputStream` consists of additional (concatenated) GZIP streams. That was done in https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-7036144. That change replaced the use of `InputStream.available()` with explicit call(s) to `InputStream.read()` to detect and read any additional concatenated GZIP stream header.

Given how old that existing code in `GZIPInputStream` was, efforts were made to ensure that it wouldn't break existing applications, for the common use case. A release note too was added in an effort to highlight this change.

Unfortunately, when reviewing and experimenting with this change I didn't realize that when we try to detect additional bytes in the stream which has already reached EOF, the `EOFException` that gets raised by this code could contribute to a performance degradation. The code does handle this exception appropriately, but it does mean that in the common case of a stream formed of just one GZIP stream, we would now end up constructing an `EOFException` in this code path.

Construction of `Throwable` instances involves filling the stacktrace into that instance and is a relatively expensive operation. As a result, we ended up regressing the performance of this code path for the common use case of parsing a non-concatenated GZIP stream.

The commit in this PR addresses this issue by introducing an alternate code path in the (private) `readHeader()` method to prevent an `EOFException` from being generated when the stream has already reached EOF and we are trying to determine if there's any additional concatenated GZIP stream header in the stream. This addresses the performance regression as well as lets us retain the changes that we had done in JDK-7036144 to prevent the usage of `InputStream.available()`

## 变更文件

| 文件 | 状态 | +/- |
|------|------|-----|
| src/java.base/share/classes/java/util/zip/GZIPInputStream.java | modified | +48/-8 |

## 审查讨论

- **AlanBateman**: Have you tried using -1 for EOF instead of 0? I think would make it easier to understand at the use sites.
- **jaikiran**: I had very briefly considered it, but there was a call site (within this class) which was doing:
 ```
 m += readHeader(in);
 ```
 so I decided to use 
- **LanceAndersen**: Any consideration given to using an enum or constant to make it a bit clearer on what the true represents realizing there is a comment in the readHead


> **Backported to**: JDK 25u

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
