# JDK-8233020: (fs) UnixFileSystemProvider should use StaticProperty.userDir().

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8233020](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8233020) |
| **PR** | [#4668](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/4668) |
| **Author** | jaikiran |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-07-02 |
| **Merged** | 2021-07-05 |
| **审查天数** | 3 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.io |
| **代码变更** | +2 / -3 (1 files) |
| **审查者** | AlanBateman (1 人) |

## 描述

Can I please get a review for this change which addresses https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8233020?

The commit in this PR updates `sun.nio.fs.UnixFileSystemProvider` to use the `jdk.internal.util.StaticProperty`, which was introduced in https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8066709, to get the value for the "user.dir" system property. Given the nature of this change, no new jtreg test has been added.

Alan notes in JDK-8233020:

> The changes in JDK-8066709 were okay to leave out the Unix file system provider because it was initialized very early in the startup at the time.

So, with input from Roger, I generated the classloading logs of a trivial helloworld application, before and after this change. I used `-verbose:class` to generate them.

```
public class Test {
	public static void main(final String[] args) throws Exception {
		System.out.println("Hello world");
	}
}
```

The classloading logs showed that the order, both before and after the change, has the `jdk.internal.util.StaticProperty` loaded way before the `sun.nio.fs.UnixFileSystemProvider`. Given the way `jdk.internal.util.StaticProperty` class gets loaded in phase 1 of java.lang.System initialization[1], this classloading order also implies that `jdk.internal.util.StaticProperty` is initialized before any instance of `sun.nio.fs.UnixFileSystemProvider` gets created. I also checked a few versions of JDKs - 11, 15, 16 and even 8 (which seems to have this backported) and none of them show the `sun.nio.fs.UnixFileSystemProvider` loading before the `StaticProperty`. I wasn't able to build the version of a JDK (due to build tool incompatibilities with my local system) before the change in JDK-8066709 was introduced. So I don't have any version of JDK to compare where `UnixFileSystemProvider` was perhaps being loaded way too early to cause any issue. So in short, on the ordering front, IMO this change shouldn't cause any issues that I can think of. 

For the sake of reference,

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
