# JDK-8365526: Crash with null Symbol passed to SystemDictionary::resolve_or_null

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8365526](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8365526) |
| **PR** | [#28438](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/28438) |
| **Author** | coleenp |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-11-20 |
| **Merged** | 2025-12-01 |
| **审查天数** | 11 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | arch/x86 |
| **代码变更** | +22 / -11 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | DamonFool, coleenp, dholmes-ora, iklam, johan-sjolen, tkrodriguez (6 人) |

## 描述

The vm was crashing because the constant pool couldn't find the resolution error in the ResolutionErrorEntry error field.

There are two uses of ResolutionErrorEntry in the ResolutionErrorTable.  The key to this table is {ConstantPool, cp-index}.   In this crash, multiple threads were racing to record nest_host_errors in the case where resolution failed.  In this case, there was already a ResolutionErrorEntry in the table for the constant pool resolution failure.  In the 'if' case of add_nest_host_error we check to see if there's already a nest_host_error assuming it's the same error, then the 'else' case was unconditionally adding a ResolutionErrorEntry with just the nest host message.  Calling HashTable::put() with this entry with just the nest host message, was overwriting the entry with the constant pool resolution error, ie. the other fields.  The crash happened in ConstantPool::throw_resolution_error() because the error field was overwritten (and leaked too).

Add a null check before calling ResolutionErrorEntry add entry.  Also added an assert that we only add a resolution error for nest host errors in the case of success since in the case of failure there will always already be a ResolutionErrorEntry for the failing constant pool and cp index and we don't want to overwrite that again.

Tested with submitted reproducer and tier1-4.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8365526](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8365526): Crash with null Symbol passed to SystemDictionary::resolve_or_null (**Bug** - P3)


### Reviewers
 * [Tom Rodriguez](https://openjdk.org/census#never) (@tkrodriguez - **Reviewer**) Review applies to [6123316c](https://g

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
