# JDK-8365606: Container code should not be using jlong/julong

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8365606](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8365606) |
| **PR** | [#27743](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/27743) |
| **Author** | jerboaa |
| **组织** | IBM |
| **Created** | 2025-10-10 |
| **Merged** | 2025-11-18 |
| **审查天数** | 39 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | runtime/container |
| **代码变更** | +1202 / -794 (16 files) |
| **审查者** | caspernorrbin, fitzsim, jerboaa, tstuefe (4 人) |

## 描述

Please review this revised version of getting rid of `jlong` and `julong` in internal HotSpot code. The single remaining usage is using `os::elapsed_counter()` which I think is still ok. This refactoring is for the container detection code to (mostly) do away with negative return values.

It gets rid of the trifold-use of return value: 1.) error, 2) unlimited values 3) actual numbers/values/limits. Instead, all container related values are now being read from the interface files as `uint64_t` and afterwards interpreted in the way that make sense for the API implementations. For example, `cpu` values will essentially be treated as `int`s as before, potentially returning a negative value `-1` for unlimited. For memory sizes the type `physical_memory_size_type` has been chosen. When there is no limit for a specific memory size a value `value_unlimited` is being returned.

All error cases have been changed to returning `false` in the API functions (and no value is being set in the passed in reference for the value). The effect of this is that all container related functions now return a `bool` and require a reference to be passed in for the `value` that is being asked for.

All usages of the API have been changed to use the revised API. There is no more usages for `OSCONTAINER_ERROR` (`-2) in HotSpot code.

While working on this, I've noticed that there are still some calls deep in the cgroup subsystem code to query "machine" info (e.g. `os::Linux::active_processor_count()`). I've filed [JDK-8369503](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8369503) to get this cleaned-up as this patch was already getting large.

Testing (looking good):
- [x] GHA
- [x] All container tests (including problem listed ones) on Linux x86_64 with cg v1 and cg v2. See [this comment](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/27743#issuecomment-3390060127) below.
- [x] Some ad-hoc manual testing in containers using JFR (`jdk.SwapSpace` event) and `VM.info` diagnostic command.

Thoughts? Opin

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
