# JDK-8355692: Refactor stream indentation

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8355692](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8355692) |
| **PR** | [#24917](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/24917) |
| **Author** | jsikstro |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-04-28 |
| **Merged** | 2025-05-12 |
| **审查天数** | 14 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.util |
| **代码变更** | +145 / -168 (34 files) |
| **审查者** | caspernorrbin, stefank (2 人) |

## 描述

Hello,

> To make it easier to review this PR, each commit that is prefixed with "FIX:" has the command/method I've used to verify that the output of prints is not changed/broken.

The goal of this PR is to refactor the usage of streamIndentor and StreamAutoIndentor and combine them into a single StreamIndentor class to make it easier to apply indentation. [JDK-8354362](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8354362) introduced a partial solution for the refactor I propose, by being able to add indentation with a StreamAutoIndentor.

To use indentation, you currently need to do two separate things: 1) increment indentation and 2) apply indentation when printing. The indentation level can be incremented by using one of: streamIndentor, inc() or inc(int n), and automatic indentation can be enabled by using one of: StreamAutoIndentor, indent(), cr_indent().

The new StreamIndentor has the functionality of both streamIndentor and StreamAutoIndentor, that is, enabling automatic indentation and also applying an optional amount of indentation. This means you only need StreamIndentor to make sure that indentation is incremented and applied.

There are currently four (4) ways that indentation is applied in HotSpot:

1) The new method of enabling automatic indentation and applying indentation simultaneously (partially implemented already).
Only in GC printing code via CollectedHeap.

2) Initially use a StreamAutoIndentor, then use streamIndentor to temporarily increment indentation. Indentation is automatically applied when printing.
nmt/memReporter uses this principle, by having a StreamAutoIndentor as a member variable and applying indentation via streamIndentor when needed.

3) Use a streamIndentor and manually call indent() (or cr_indent()).
Commonly used pattern. No need to manually apply indentation if automatically applied.

4) Increment/decrement indentation (using inc() and/or dec()) and manually call indent().
Only C1's CFGPrinterOutput does this.

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
