# JDK-8355488: Add stress mode for C2 loop peeling

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8355488](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8355488) |
| **PR** | [#25140](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/25140) |
| **Author** | marc-chevalier |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-05-09 |
| **Merged** | 2025-05-16 |
| **审查天数** | 7 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +26 / -2 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | TobiHartmann, chhagedorn, marc-chevalier (3 人) |

## 描述

Adding a `StressLoopPeeling` dev flag that randomize peeling.

## Semantics

For now, the direction I've taken is to randomly take a decision in case of peeling, otherwise, rely on existing heuristics.

This requires to distinguish two things:
- not inlining because it's not legal: see for instance
  ```cpp
  assert(cl->trip_count() > 0, "peeling a fully unrolled loop");
  ```
  in `PhaseIdealLoop::do_peeling`
- not inlining because it doesn't seem profitable.

Peeling loops without a good reason (not containing an exiting `If` whose condition is not a member of the loop) but without a concrete way to forbid it should always be allowed. Let's stress it!

Peeling too many times is not a great idea either. It uses a lot of memory, of nodes... Also, it may prevent other optimisations from kicking in. And what about interaction with future stress flags? Let's limit peeling: we give a fixed number of opportunities to peel before we give up on peeling for good. That is not the same as limiting the amount of peeling we do. Indeed, if we bound the number of times we say "yes, please, peel" given enough requests, we will always reach the bound. If we limit the number of requests, we have a more evenly distributed amount of peeling, between 0 and the bound.

I've tried without the bound: I couldn't find any bug without the bound that would not reproduce with the bound. It only save some legitimate memory problems. Without a bound on the number of peeling opportunities, hotspot eats a lot of memory, but all the allocations seems reasonable: it just seems we ask too much. We could limit the number of nodes, to prevent peeling before we reach the memory limit, but that would also hinder other optimizations and (future) stress flags.



## The Flag

The flag is very specialized, unlike a `StressLoopOpts` would be. My idea so far is "let's see". My idea is that it's good to be able to enable stress optimizations selectively, and have a flag like `StressLoop

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
