# JDK-8355452: GHA: Test jtreg tier1 on linux-x64 static-jdk

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8355452](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8355452) |
| **PR** | [#24992](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/24992) |
| **Author** | jianglizhou |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-05-01 |
| **Merged** | 2025-05-22 |
| **审查天数** | 21 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | infrastructure |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +105 / -16 (5 files) |
| **审查者** | jianglizhou, magicus, shipilev (3 人) |

## 描述

Please review this PR that adds a `test-linux-x64-static` job, which runs tier1 tests on the static-jdk 'release' binary created from the `linux-x64-static` build job in GHA. Following are the details on the changes:

.github/actions/get-bundles/action.yml.
- Add `static-suffix` parameter. `static-suffix` is added to the bundle name. 
- Add `static-jdk-path` output.
- Unpack static bundles in bundles/static-jdk.

.github/actions/upload-bundles/action.yml
- Add `static-suffix` parameter. The `static-suffix` is added to the bundle name. The `linux-x64-static` build job sets the parameter as "-static". In other jobs, `static-suffix` not set.

.github/workflows/build-linux.yml
- Pass `${{ inputs.static-suffix }}` to upload-bundles action, with the `static-suffix` parameter.

.github/workflows/main.yml
- Build `product-bundles test-bundles static-jdk-bundles` for `linux-x64-static` job.
- Add `test-linux-x64-static` job. It currently tests on `release` binary and not `debug` binary, since there are build issue with `debug` due to GHA resource/space limit.
- Set `debug-suffix` for the existing non-static test jobs, which test on `debug` binaries.

.github/workflows/test.yml
- Add `debug-suffix` parameter and replace `debug-suffix: -debug` with `debug-suffix: ${{ inputs.debug-suffix }}` in hs/tier1 tests in the test matrix. The existing test jobs (on non-static JDK) set `debug-suffix` to `-debug` to test on `debug` binaries.
- Add `static-suffix` parameter. Add `${{ inputs.static-suffix }}` to the test result artifact name.
- Add `run-tests-static`.
- Add step for notifying test failures on static JDK.

@shipilev Could you please help review this change? Thanks!

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitesp

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
