# JDK-8267118: OutOfMemoryError cannot be caught as a Throwable

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8267118](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8267118) |
| **PR** | [#4266](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/4266) |
| **Author** | dholmes-ora |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-05-31 |
| **Merged** | 2021-06-02 |
| **审查天数** | 2 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +125 / -1 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | coleenp, dholmes-ora, iklam (3 人) |

## 描述

This interesting little quirk was discovered by @iklam. During verification, the catch-type in a catch clause is normally resolved as part of being checked to see that it is a subclass of Throwable. At runtime when an exception is thrown, we also have to check if the exception being thrown is assignable to the catch-type and so handled by that catch block. For the case where the catch-type is Throwable itself, the verification subclass check trivially passes (due to a name match) without actually resolving the CP entry for the catch-type. So at runtime when the exception is thrown we have to perform the CP resolution of the catch-type. But the resolution process itself can trigger exceptions and in particular if we have thrown OutOfMemoryError, the resolution may throw a secondary OutOfMemoryError, which prevents the first from being caught by the catch block!

The fix is to force resolution of the catch-type at verification time, when it is Throwable.

To aid in debugging the original problem I've also added some new logging statements that show how we find a catch block and if we encounter further exceptions in trying to catch the exception - see example in the JBS issue.

Testing: tiers 1-3, plus the new test

Thanks,
David

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8267118](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8267118): OutOfMemoryError cannot be caught as a Throwable


### Reviewers
 * [Coleen Phillimore](https://openjdk.java.net/census#coleenp) (@coleenp - **Reviewer**)


### Contributors
 * Ioi Lam `<iklam@openjdk.org>`

### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk pull/4266/head:pull/4266` \
`$ git checkout pull/4266`

Update

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
