# JDK-8267184: Add -Djava.security.manager=allow to tests calling System.setSecurityManager

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8267184](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8267184) |
| **PR** | [#4071](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/4071) |
| **Author** | wangweij |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-05-17 |
| **Merged** | 2021-05-24 |
| **审查天数** | 7 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | security-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.net |
| **代码变更** | +1019 / -776 (852 files) |
| **审查者** | AlanBateman, dfuch, dholmes-ora, mlchung, prrace, seanjmullan, wangweij (7 人) |

## 描述

Please review the test changes for [JEP 411](https://openjdk.java.net/jeps/411).

With JEP 411 and the default value of `-Djava.security.manager` becoming `disallow`, tests calling `System.setSecurityManager()`  need `-Djava.security.manager=allow` when launched. This PR covers such changes for tier1 to tier3 (except for the JCK tests).

To make it easier to focus your review on the tests in your area, this PR is divided into multiple commits for different areas (~~serviceability~~, ~~hotspot-compiler~~, ~~i18n~~, ~~rmi~~, ~~javadoc~~, swing, 2d, ~~security~~, ~~hotspot-runtime~~, ~~nio~~, ~~xml~~, ~~beans~~, ~~core-libs~~, ~~net~~, ~~compiler~~, ~~hotspot-gc~~). Mostly the rule is the same as how Skara adds labels, but there are several small tweaks:

1. When a file is covered by multiple labels, only one is chosen. I make my best to avoid putting too many tests into `core-libs`. If a file is covered by `core-libs` and another label, I categorized it into the other label.
2. If a file is in `core-libs` but contains `/xml/` in its name, it's in the `xml` commit.
3. If a file is in `core-libs` but contains `/rmi/` in its name, it's in the `rmi` commit.
4. One file not covered by any label -- `test/jdk/com/sun/java/accessibility/util/8051626/Bug8051626.java` -- is in the `swing` commit.

Due to the size of this PR, no attempt is made to update copyright years for all files to minimize unnecessary merge conflict.

Please note that this PR can be integrated before the source changes for JEP 411, as the possible values of this system property was already defined long time ago in JDK 9.

Most of the change in this PR is a simple adding of `-Djava.security.manager=allow` to the `@run main/othervm` line. Sometimes it was not `othervm` and we add one. Sometimes there's no `@run` at all and we add the line.

There are several tests that launch another Java process that needs to call the `System.setSecurityManager()` method, and the system property is added to

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
