# JDK-8267452: Delegate forEachRemaining in Spliterators.iterator()

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8267452](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8267452) |
| **PR** | [#4124](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/4124) |
| **Author** | amaembo |
| **Created** | 2021-05-20 |
| **Merged** | 2021-05-26 |
| **审查天数** | 6 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs |
| **代码变更** | +198 / -5 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | PaulSandoz (1 人) |

## 描述

Sometimes, `Spliterator::forEachRemaining` has much more optimized implementation, compared to `Spliterator::tryAdvance`. For example, if a `Stream::spliterator` called for a stream that has intermediate operations, `tryAdvance()` may buffer intermediate elements while `forEachRemaining()` just delegates to the `wrapAndCopyInto` (see `StreamSpliterators.AbstractWrappingSpliterator` and its inheritors).

`Spliterators::iterator` methods (used in particular by `Stream::iterator`) provide adapter iterators that delegate to the supplied spliterator. Unfortunately, they don't have a specialized implementation for `Iterator::forEachRemaining`. As a result, a default implementation is used that delegates to `hasNext`/`next`, which in turn causes the delegation to `tryAdvance`. It's quite simple to implement `Iterator::forEachRemaining` here, taking advantage of possible spliterator optimizations if the iterator client decides to use `forEachRemaining`.

This patch implements Iterator::forEachRemaining in Spliterators::iterator methods. Also, I nullize the `nextElement` in `Iterator::next` to avoid accidental prolongation of the user's object lifetime when iteration is finished. Finally, a small cleanup: I added the `final` modifier where possible to private fields in `Spliterators`.

Test-wise, some scenarios are already covered by SpliteratorTraversingAndSplittingTest. However, the resulting iterator is always wrapped into `Spliterators::spliterator`, so usage scenarios are somewhat limited. In particular, calling `hasNext` (without `next`) before `forEachRemaining` was not covered there. I added more tests in `IteratorFromSpliteratorTest` to cover these scenarios. I checked that removing `valueReady = false;` or `action.accept(t);` lines from newly implemented `forEachRemaining` method causes new tests to fail (but old tests don't fail due to this).

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progre

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
