# JDK-8267430: GraphicsDevice.setDisplayMode(REFRESH_RATE_UNKNOWN) throws IAE: Unable to set display mode!

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8267430](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8267430) |
| **PR** | [#4373](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/4373) |
| **Author** | prrace |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-06-05 |
| **Merged** | 2021-06-09 |
| **审查天数** | 4 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P2 |
| **组件** | client-libs |
| **模块** | client |
| **代码变更** | +142 / -4 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | azvegint, mrserb, prrace (3 人) |

## 描述

There are two issues here, both macOS specific.
First the original reported one that occurs when running on a shared remote VNC type desktop on macOS.
Only a single supported display mode is returned and it is also the current mode.
A program that simply enumerates the reported modes and tries to set them, if it reaches the native layer,
will fail because macOS reports the same display mode it returned as valid as now being illegal.
It does not appear to be as simple as a user's permission level since it occurs with an admin user as well
so it probably is the case that macOS simply does not allow this shared desktop to be changed although
there's no docs I can find
Ordinarily we would not have tried this since we test if the requested display mode is the same as the native
one and skip it, but the provided test used REFRESH_RATE_UNKNOWN which is allowed as meaning match
any mode that satisfies W,H,BPP. But this caused it to fail the equals test so the code is enhanced to check for that

Second, when creating a test it was discovered that *at least* on the built-in retina display of a 16" macbook pro,
the system default contig is never in the list of available modes and can be discovered only by querying the *current* mode
before any modes are changed. This beheaviour is 100% consistent no matter if the system was just rebooted, has
an external monitor attached as well, or not, activates the discrete card, or not.

Since we've had code since at least 2013 that added the default mode I suspect this has been seen before but nowhere
can I find an explanation.

It has odd consequences like after you change the display mode, you will no longer see the default display mode reported,
so the list of available modes is reduced by one.
But for a typical use case which doesn't re-query or more typically caches the original display mode in order to restore it, it presents a bigger problem that trying to restore will always fail. 

So the other thing this

## 变更文件

| 文件 | 状态 | +/- |
|------|------|-----|
| src/java.desktop/macosx/classes/sun/awt/CGraphicsDevice.java | modified | +58/-4 |
| src/java.desktop/macosx/native/libawt_lwawt/awt/CGraphicsDevice.m | modified | +12/-0 |
| ...jdk/java/awt/GraphicsDevice/DisplayModes/UnknownRefrshRateTest.java | added | +72/-0 |

## 审查讨论

- **azvegint**: `nativeResetDisplayMode`?
- **azvegint**: BTW, do we want to run this test on other platforms?  If so, we need to modify test. Because `isDisplayChangeSupported()` may return true on Windows
- **prrace**: I don't see the harm.

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
