# JDK-8267703: runtime/cds/appcds/cacheObject/HeapFragmentationTest.java crashed with OutOfMemory

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8267703](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8267703) |
| **PR** | [#4225](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/4225) |
| **Author** | kstefanj |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-05-27 |
| **Merged** | 2021-06-07 |
| **审查天数** | 11 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | runtime/cds |
| **代码变更** | +13 / -3 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | kimbarrett, kstefanj, tschatzl (3 人) |

## 描述

Please review this change to lower fragmentation when heap usage is low.

**Summary**
The above test case fails because the G1 Full GC fails to compact the single used region below the needed threshold. In this case the region needs to be compacted below region index 400 to be able to fit the large array. The reason this fails is that the full GC uses a lot of parallel workers and if the system is under load it is possible that the worker finding the region to compact hasn't been able to claim any regions low enough in the heap to compact the live objects to.

To fix this we can add a third thing to consider in the code calculating the number of workers to use for a given compaction. So far we only look at keeping the waste down and using the default adaptive calculations. If we also consider how much is used we can get a lower worker count in cases like this and that will make it much more likely to succeed with the compaction. In this case it will guarantee it since there is a single region used, so there will be only one worker and then it will compact the region to the bottom of the heap.

**Testing**
Manual verification that this will cause these collections to only use a single worker. Also currently running some performance regression testing to make sure this doesn't cause any big regressions.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8267703](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8267703): runtime/cds/appcds/cacheObject/HeapFragmentationTest.java crashed with OutOfMemory


### Reviewers
 * [Thomas Schatzl](https://openjdk.java.net/census#tschatzl) (@tschatzl - **Reviewer**)
 * [Kim Barrett](https://openjdk.java.net/census#kbarrett) (@kimbarrett - **Reviewer**)


### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></s

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
