# JDK-8368174: Proactive initialization of @AOTSafeClassInitializer classes

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8368174](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8368174) |
| **PR** | [#27402](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/27402) |
| **Author** | iklam |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-09-20 |
| **Merged** | 2025-09-24 |
| **审查天数** | 4 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | arch/x86 |
| **代码变更** | +242 / -91 (11 files) |
| **审查者** | adinn, ashu-mehra, iklam, liach (4 人) |

## 描述

This is an alternative to https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/27024. Thanks to @ashu-mehra for the suggestion.

### Background:

The AOT Assembly Phase is in essence a small Java program that executes a limited set of Java bytecodes. This program bootstraps the module system, loads classes, and performs certain ahead-of-time optimizations such as resolving `invokedynamic` call sites.

As a side effect of Java program execution, a small set of Java classes are initialized in the Assembly Phase.

Since [JDK-8360163](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8360163), if a class `X` is annotated with `@AOTSafeClassInitializer` *and* is initialized in the Assembly Phase, then `X` will be stored in the AOT cache in the "initialized" state. When the AOT cache is used in the Production Run, `X::<clinit>` will not be executed, and the static variables of `X` will be available upon JVM bootstrap.

### Problem:

The Assembly Phase doesn't touch many classes that may benefit from `@AOTSafeClassInitializer`. For example, `jdk.internal.math.MathUtils::<clinit>` creates a few large tables. Caching `MathUtils` in the "initialized" state will improve start-up time. However, since no bytecodes executed by the Assembly Phase use `MathUtils`. it will not be initialized.

### Fix:

If a class `X` has the `@AOTSafeClassInitializer` annotation *and* was initialized in the AOT Training Run, the JVM will proactively initialize `X` in the Assembly Phase. This will ensure that `X` will be cached in the "initialized" state.

As a proof of concept, `@AOTSafeClassInitializer` is added to `MathUtils`. `@AOTSafeClassInitializer` will be added to more classes in future RFEs.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
