# JDK-8255047: Add HotSpot UseDebuggerErgo flags

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8255047](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8255047) |
| **PR** | [#763](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/763) |
| **Author** | stefank |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2020-10-20 |
| **Merged** | 2020-10-22 |
| **审查天数** | 2 |
| **版本** | JDK 16 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | runtime/serviceability |
| **代码变更** | +51 / -3 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | dholmes-ora (1 人) |

## 描述

Some debuggers don't work well with many threads, and/or incompletely restricts the number of used CPUs to one.

This flag is intended as a catch-all for HotSpot developers (not available in product builds) to allow us to more easily use those debuggers.

Currently, the proposal is to let the flag fix a few things:
1) Turn down the number of JVM threads
2) Turn off NUMA
3) Force processor_id() to return 0 instead of values above processor_count()

(1) is purely ergonomics: gdb, rr, valgrind is faster and seems to work much better with fewer threads. The values would still be overridable by devs.

(2) and (3) deals with the fact that some debuggers change the reported processor count, but don't change the processor ids returned by sched_getcpu. This causes problems for ZGC and NUMA, that both assumes that they can rely on os::processor_id() < os::processor_count().

The current proposed flag name is -XX:+LimitedCPUsDebugging. I'm not entirely happy with that name, but I been able to find a better name.

An alternative to having one flag, is to split this into two flags, and maybe that would solve the naming problem. However, the usability aspects will be worse.

If we can't find a suitable name, I rather introduce a flag called:
-XX:DebuggerWorkarounds or -XX:DebuggerWorkaround1 

Any suggestions / opinions? I really do want to at least fix the (2, 3) problem, because I keep having to add this to every single branch I'm working on.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Testing

|     | Linux x32 | Linux x64 | Windows x64 | macOS x64 |
| --- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| Build | ✔️ (1/1 passed) | ✔️ (5/5 passed) | ✔️ (2/2 passed) | ✔️ (2/2 passed) |
| Test (tier1) |    |  ✔️ (9/9 passed) | ❌ (1/9 failed) | ✔️ (9/9 passed) |

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
