# JDK-8255987: JDI tests fail with com.sun.jdi.ObjectCollectedException

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8255987](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8255987) |
| **PR** | [#1595](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/1595) |
| **Author** | pliden |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2020-12-03 |
| **Merged** | 2020-12-09 |
| **审查天数** | 6 |
| **版本** | JDK 16 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | core-svc |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +168 / -33 (8 files) |
| **审查者** | dholmes-ora, pliden, plummercj (3 人) |

## 描述

This PR replaces the withdrawn PR #1348. This PR tries to fix the underlying problem, rather than fix the tests.

The problem is that a number of JDI tests create objects on the debugger side with calls to `newInstance()`. However, on the debugee side, these new instances will only be held on to by a `JNIGlobalWeakRef`, which means they could be collected at any time, even before `newInstace()` returns. A number of JDI tests get spurious `ObjectCollectedException` thrown at them, which results in test failures. To make these objects stick around, a call to `disableCollection()` is typically needed.

However, as pointer out by @plummercj in [JDK-8255987](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8255987):

> Going back to the spec, ObjectReference.disableCollection() says:
> 
> "By default all ObjectReference values returned by JDI may be collected at any time the target VM is running"
> 
> and
> 
> "Note that while the target VM is suspended, no garbage collection will occur because all threads are suspended."
> 
> But no where does is say what is meant by the VM running or being suspended, or how to get it in that state. One might assume that this ties in with VirtualMachine.suspend(), but it says:
> 
> "Suspends the execution of the application running in this virtual machine. All threads currently running will be suspended."
> 
> No mention of suspending the VM, but that certainly seems to be what is implied by the method name and also by the loose wording in disableCollection().

Most of our spuriously failing tests do actually make a call to `VirtualMachine.suspend()`, presumably to prevent objects from being garbage collected. However, the current implementation of `VirtualMachine.suspend()` will only suspend all Java threads. That is not enough to prevent objects from being garbage collected. The GC can basically run at any time, and there is no relation to whether all Java threads are suspended or not.

However, as suggested by @plummerc

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
