# JDK-8335747: C2: fix overflow case for LoopLimit with constant inputs

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8335747](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8335747) |
| **PR** | [#23024](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/23024) |
| **Author** | eme64 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-01-10 |
| **Merged** | 2025-01-14 |
| **审查天数** | 4 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +82 / -9 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | merykitty, vnkozlov (2 人) |

## 描述

`LoopLimitNode::Value` tries to constant-fold when it has constant inputs. However, there can be an overflow in the int-computation, but we check for it with `if (final_con == (jlong)final_int) {` and do not constant fold in that case.

However, there was an `assert` that checked that such an overflow would never be encountered. We already had to make an exception for this assert during PhaseCCP with [JDK-8309266](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8309266).

Why did we not hit this assert before?
`LoopLimitNode` needs to have constant inputs. We used to assume that if the constants would lead to an overflow, then the loop-limit-check would also get similar constants, and detect that `limit <= max_int-stride` does not hold, and it would constant-fold away the loop, together with the `LoopLimitNode`.

But now we found a second case:
https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/blob/d93d1a3b58728f7978bbd5824b1bf6493b42561e/src/hotspot/share/opto/loopnode.cpp#L2555-L2563

In `PhaseIdealLoop::split_thru_phi`, we temporarily split the `LoopLimitNode` through the phi, generating a new `LoopLimitNode` for each branch of the `phi`. We then call `Value` on it to see if that leads us to constant fold one of the branches, which would be considered a "win".
https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/blob/d93d1a3b58728f7978bbd5824b1bf6493b42561e/src/hotspot/share/opto/loopopts.cpp#L87-L105

In the regression test, we have this example:
https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/blob/d93d1a3b58728f7978bbd5824b1bf6493b42561e/test/hotspot/jtreg/compiler/loopopts/TestLoopLimitOverflowDuringSplitThruPhi.java#L44-L69

We generate a temporary clone of `LoopLimitNode(init=0, limit=x, stride=4)` (would not constant fold because of variable `x = Phi(1000, 2147483647)`), which happens to be `LoopLimitNode(init=0, limit=2147483647, stride=4)`. We evaluate `Value` on this temporary clone, and hit the overflow case.

Why is it ok to just remove the assert and allow `LoopLimitNode` to overflow?
We still have th

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
