# JDK-8335122: Reorganize internal low-level support for HTML in jdk.javadoc

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8335122](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8335122) |
| **PR** | [#19916](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/19916) |
| **Author** | jonathan-gibbons |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-06-26 |
| **Merged** | 2024-08-02 |
| **审查天数** | 37 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | tools |
| **代码变更** | +1377 / -1395 (107 files) |
| **审查者** | hns, jonathan-gibbons, turbanoff (3 人) |

## 描述

Please review a change to reorganize the internal low-level support for HTML in the jdk.javadoc module.

Hitherto, there are two separate sets of classes for low-level support for HTML in the `jdk.javadoc` module: one, in doclint, focused on reading and checking classes, the other, in the standard doclet, focused on generating HTML. This PR merges those two sets, into a new package `jdk.javadoc.internal.html` that is now used by both `doclint` and the standard doclet.

There was a naming "anti-clash" -- `HtmlTag` in `doclint` vs `TagName` in the standard doclet. The resolution is to use `HtmlTag`, since the merged class is more than just the tag name.

A few minor bugs were found and fixed.   Other minor cleanup was done, but otherwise, there should be no big surprises here. But, one small item of note: `enum HtmlStyle` was split into `interface HtmlStyle` and `enum HtmlStyles implements HtmlStyle` to avoid having a doclet-specific enum class in the new `internal.html` package.  The naming follows `HtmlId` and `HtmlIds`.

There is no attempt at this time to simplify `HtmlTag` and `HtmlAttr` to remove support for older versions of HTML.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8335122](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8335122): Reorganize internal low-level support for HTML in jdk.javadoc (**Enhancement** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Hannes Wallnöfer](https://openjdk.org/census#hannesw) (@hns - **Reviewer**)

### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.org/jdk.git pull/19916/head:pull/19916` \
`$ git checkout pull/19916`

Update a local copy of the PR: \
`$ git chec

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
