# JDK-8335392: C2 MergeStores: enhanced pointer parsing

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8335392](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8335392) |
| **PR** | [#19970](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/19970) |
| **Author** | eme64 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-07-01 |
| **Merged** | 2024-11-05 |
| **审查天数** | 127 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +2475 / -270 (16 files) |
| **审查者** | chhagedorn, dean-long, eme64, vnkozlov (4 人) |

## 描述

**Background**
I am introducing the `MemPointer`, for enhanced pointer parsing. For now, it replaces the much more limited `ArrayPointer` in `MergeStores` (see https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/16245), but eventually it is supposed to be used widely in optimizations for pointer analysis: adjacency, aliasing, etc. I also plan to refactor the `VPointer` from auto-vectorization with it, and unlock more pointer patterns that way - possibly including scatter/gather.

**Details**

The `MemPointer` decomposes a pointer into the form `pointer = con + sum_i(scale_i * variable_i)` - a linear form with a sum of variables and scale-coefficients, plus some constant offset.

This form allows us to perform aliasing checks - basically we can check if two pointers are always at a constant offset. This allows us to answer many questions, including if two pointers are adjacent. `MergeStores` needs to know if two stores are adjacent, so that we can safely merge them.

More details can be found in the description in `mempointer.hpp`. Please read them when reviewing!

`MemPointer` is more powerful than the previous `ArrayPointer`: the latter only allows arrays, the former also allows native memory accesses, `Unsafe` and `MemorySegement`.

**What this change enables**

Before this change, we only allowed merging stores to arrays, where the store had to have the same type as the array element (`StoreB` on `byte[]`, `StoreI` on `int[]`).

Now we can do:
- Merging `Unsafe` stores to array. Including "mismatched size": e.g. `putChar` to `byte[]`.
- Merging `Unsafe` stores to native memory.
- Merging `MemorySegment`: with array, native, ByteBuffer backing types.
  - However: there is still some problem with RangeCheck smearing (a type of RC elimination) for the examples I have tried. Without RC's smeared, we can only ever merge 2 neighbouring stores. I hope we can improve this with better RangeCheck smearing. `MemorySegment` introduce `checkIndexL`, the long-variant of t

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
