# JDK-8293657: sun/management/jmxremote/bootstrap/RmiBootstrapTest.java#id1 failed with "SSLHandshakeException: Remote host te

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8293657](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8293657) |
| **PR** | [#10323](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/10323) |
| **Author** | jaikiran |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-09-18 |
| **Merged** | 2022-09-23 |
| **审查天数** | 5 |
| **版本** | JDK 20 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | core-svc |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +9 / -15 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | dfuch, kevinjwalls (2 人) |

## 描述

Can I please get a review of this change which proposes to fix the intermittent failures noted in https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8293657?

There are two parts to this fix. One is straightforward fix in the test configuration file where it uses an incompatible cipher suite with the enabled protocols. The details of that are noted in my comment in the JBS https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8293657?focusedCommentId=14524400&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels%3Acomment-tabpanel#comment-14524400. The fix for that resides solely in `management_ssltest07_ok.properties.in` file.

The more curious part was why this specific test configuration is ever passing instead of always failing. That turned out to be a bug in the `sun.management.jmxremote.HostAwareSslSocketFactory`.  The (internal implementation detail) in `sun.rmi.transport.tcp.TCPEndpoint` holds a cache of `localEndpoints` which effectively are server and client socket factories that get used when creating the corresponding socket/server sockets. The cache uses a key, whose one component is the `HostAwareSslSocketFactory` instance. This class extends from `javax.rmi.ssl.SslRMIServerSocketFactory` which is where the `equals()` is implemented for the `HostAwareSslSocketFactory` instances. The bug resides in the fact that the current implementation of the `HostAwareSslSocketFactory` constructor doesn't pass to its `super` the `enabledCipherSuites`, `enabledProtocols` and  `needClientAuth` values with which the `HostAwareSslSocketFactory` was constructed with. Instead it stores these values as private members and thus the `SslRMIServerSocketFactory` has its own version of these members as `null`. The `SslRMIServerSocketFactory` uses these values in its `equals` implementation and thus ends up computing a wrong output from the `equals` call. This ultimately ends up with the (internal) `TCPEndpoint` returning an incorrect (server) socket factory that gets used during the client/server communicat

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
