# JDK-8332488: Add JVMTI DataDumpRequest to the debug agent

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8332488](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8332488) |
| **PR** | [#20367](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/20367) |
| **Author** | plummercj |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-07-27 |
| **Merged** | 2024-08-14 |
| **审查天数** | 18 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-svc |
| **模块** | runtime/serviceability |
| **代码变更** | +253 / -39 (10 files) |
| **审查者** | lmesnik, plummercj, sspitsyn (3 人) |

## 描述

JVMTI has a somewhat unique event called DataDumpRequest. One way it is triggered is via the JVMTI.data_dump jcmd, which causes JVMTI to send the DataDumpRequest event to all agents that have registered for the event callback. The agent is free to do pretty much what it wants during the callback, but the normal usage is to dump anything that might be useful for debugging the agent. In the case of the debug agent, it could dump internal data like the list of known threads and event handlers. After ranked monitor support is complete, it can also dump the state of all jvmti raw monitors that the debug agent uses.

I decided to not enable this feature by default, and not make public the option to enable it. This should only be used by developers working on the debug agent, or by users when requested to do so (by debug agent developers) to help debug a debug agent problem.

Most of the code executed during the data dump was only available for debug builds, so I've made it available for all builds. Their addition does not affect product builds except for adding a small footprint.

TBD is directing the output to a file. This is useful for some of the debugger tests that don't include the debuggee output in the log. This seems to be the case for most com/sun/jdi tests. I decided not to include it for this first pass since it is rather disruptive and detracts from the main changes being made.

testing tbd: run all tier1, tier2, and. tie5 svc tests.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8332488](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8332488): Add JVMTI DataDumpRequest to the debug agent (**Enhancement** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Serguei Spitsyn](https://o

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
