# JDK-8332111: [BACKOUT] A way to align already compiled methods with compiler directives

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8332111](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8332111) |
| **PR** | [#19215](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/19215) |
| **Author** | eastig |
| **组织** | Amazon |
| **Created** | 2024-05-13 |
| **Merged** | 2024-05-15 |
| **审查天数** | 2 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler |
| **代码变更** | +33 / -377 (15 files) |
| **审查者** | shipilev, vnkozlov (2 人) |

## 描述

Backout of [JDK-8309271](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8309271) which has known bugs, possible bugs and performance issues. REDO work is tracked by [JDK-8331749](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8331749).

Found bugs:
- When refreshing `CompilerDirectivesAddDCmd::execute` will call `DirectivesStack::hasMatchingDirectives(mh, true)` which only considers the compiler directive which is on the top of the directives stack. As more than one directive can be added, `CompilerDirectivesAddDCmd::execute` will not behave as expected.
- A Java method with old directives might be in the compilation queue. A request to recompile it with new directives will be ignored.

There are other concerns: bugs and performance issues.

Possible bugs:
- `has_matching_directives` might not be cleared. A nmethod might get into the unloading state before `CodeCache::recompile_marked_directives_matches`. If the nmethod has been used to mark a Java method and it is the only nmethod, there will be no nmethod in CodeCache to reach the Java method to clear the mark.
- A Java method might have been compiled with new directives before `CodeCache::recompile_marked_directives_matches`. `CodeCache::recompile_marked_directives_matches` will recompile it again.
- JIT compiler might be compiling a Java method with old directives. A request to recompile it with new directives will be ignored.

Performance issues:
- Usually directives are updated for a small number of Java methods. If CodeCache has thousands of nmethods, `CodeCache::recompile_marked_directives_matches` will be traversing nmethods most of which don't need recompilation.

The backout is not clean because of removal of `CompiledMethod`.

Tested with release and fastdebug builds: tier1  and tier2 passed.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openj

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
