# JDK-8371964: C2 compilation asserts with "Unexpected load/store size"

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8371964](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8371964) |
| **PR** | [#28410](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/28410) |
| **Author** | merykitty |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-11-20 |
| **Merged** | 2025-12-02 |
| **审查天数** | 12 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P2 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +23 / -4 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | chhagedorn, eme64, iwanowww, merykitty (4 人) |

## 描述

Hi,

This fixes the crash in `Load/StoreVectorMaskedNode::Ideal`. The issue here is that the graph is not canonical during idealization, which leads to us processing a dead node. The fix I propose is to bail-out when that happens.

To be more specific, for this issue, we have the graph that looks like:

    ConI -> ConvI2L -> CastLL(0..32) -> VectorMaskGen

with `ConI` being 45 and `MaxVectorSize` being 32. In this instance, `CastLL` is processed before `ConvI2L`, and when it is processed, it sees that the type of `ConvI2L` being its bottom type. As a result, it does not know that it is top, and since we are after macro expansion, which is after loop opts, the `CastLL` goes away, leaving us with:

    ConI -> ConvI2L -> VectorMaskGen

After `ConvI2L` is processed, we know that the input of `VectorMaskGen` is a constant 45, which is larger than `MaxVectorSize`, leading to the assert failure.

Please take a look and leave your thoughts, thanks a lot.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8371964](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8371964): C2 compilation asserts with "Unexpected load/store size" (**Bug** - P2)


### Reviewers
 * [Christian Hagedorn](https://openjdk.org/census#chagedorn) (@chhagedorn - **Reviewer**)
 * [Emanuel Peter](https://openjdk.org/census#epeter) (@eme64 - **Reviewer**) Review applies to [ec7298ef](https://git.openjdk.org/jdk/pull/28410/files/ec7298eff3d7af527cbbbfe1370ba473459645ed)

### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.org/jdk.git pull/28410/head:pull/28410` \
`$ git checkout pull/28410`

Update a local copy of the PR: \
`$ g

## 变更文件

| 文件 | 状态 | +/- |
|------|------|-----|
| src/hotspot/share/opto/vectornode.cpp | modified | +18/-2 |
| test/hotspot/jtreg/compiler/arraycopy/TestArrayCopyDisjoint.java | modified | +5/-2 |

## 审查讨论

- **chhagedorn**: Do I understand correctly that this widening/removal of the `CastLL` node is happening on an actual dead path that is going to be removed anyway?  It 
- **merykitty**: Done, running `compiler/arraycopy/TestArrayCopyDisjoint.java` with `-XX:+UnlockDiagnosticVMOptions -XX:-TieredCompilation -XX:+StressArrayCopyMacroNod
- **chhagedorn**: Thanks for the update! If it's a short running test/config, then I think it would be good to have this extra config to cover the changes of this patch

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
