# JDK-8371762: Incorrect use of checked_cast in Arguments::process_settings_file

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8371762](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8371762) |
| **PR** | [#28283](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/28283) |
| **Author** | xmas92 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-11-13 |
| **Merged** | 2026-01-15 |
| **审查天数** | 63 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.io |
| **代码变更** | +14 / -9 (1 files) |
| **审查者** | dholmes-ora, kimbarrett, xmas92 (3 人) |

## 描述

[JDK-8313882](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8313882) introduced a `checked_cast` when to silence the Wconversion warnings when we store an `int` in a `char`. The problem is that the assumption that the value in the `int` we get from `getc` is compatible with `char` is incorrect.

The specification for `getc` is that it returns either `EOF` or the next read `unsigned char` converted to an `int`. This means we have the possible values of `{EOF, 0-255}`, we always check for `EOF` first, so we end up only having `{0-255}` as the possible values. (While a char has the possible values of `{-128-127}`.)

So first the problem with `checked_cast` (which ensures that the type roundtrip is lossless) will end up converting any value in `{128-255}` to `{-128, -1}` which when converted back to an `int` is `{-128, -1}` and not `{128-255}`.

The thing is that this is not a problem except for the assert as we do not care if the conversion roundtrip is lossless. We only want to reinterpret the value as a `char`, and never try to regain the unsigned representation converted to an `int` that `getc` uses.

Another issue with keeping the value inside an `int` which could lead to bugs in the future is that when we use it in equality comparison agains a `char` we will encounter an integer promotion of the `char` which will lead to surprising incorrect results if the character is non-ascii.

Currently we have no such comparisons of this `int` vs a non-ascii character. So the only issue is the assert inside `checked_cast` which will trigger if the settings file contains a non-ascii character.

I suggest we convert the return value from `getc` to a `char` after we have check for `EOF` and before we use it as a character.

It is worth noting that the `(unsigned char)` casts for the calls into `isspace` (introduced by [JDK-8332400](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8332400)) is very important to get the correct value for its `int` input parameter. (So we get the correct no

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
