# JDK-8366702: C2 SuperWord: refactor VTransform vector nodes

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8366702](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8366702) |
| **PR** | [#27056](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/27056) |
| **Author** | eme64 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-09-02 |
| **Merged** | 2025-09-11 |
| **审查天数** | 9 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +287 / -179 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | chhagedorn, eme64, galderz, mhaessig (4 人) |

## 描述

I'm working on cost-modeling, and am integrating some smaller changes from this proof-of-concept PR:
https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/20964
[See plan overfiew.](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8340093)

This is a pure refactoring - no change in behaviour. I'm presenting it like this because it will make reviews easier.

---------------------------------

I have to say: I'm very sorry for this refactoring. I took some decisions in https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/19719 that I'm now partially undoing. I moved too much logic from `SuperWord::output` (now called `SuperWordVTransformBuilder::make_vector_vtnode_for_pack`) to the `VTransform...Node::apply`. https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/19719  was a roughly 1.5k line change, and I took about a 0.3k misstep that I'm now correcting here ;)

I had accidentially made the `VTransformGraph` too close to the `PackSet`, and not close enough to the future vectorized C2 Graph. And that makes some future changes hard.

My vision:
- VLoop / VLoopAnalyzer look at the scalar loop and prepare it for SuperWord
- SuperWord creates the `PackSet`: some nodes are packed, all others are scalar.
- `SuperWordVTransformBuilder` converts the `PackSet` into the `VTransformGraph`
- The `VTransformGraph` very closely represents the C2 vectorized loop after vectorization
  - It does not need to know which `nodes` it packs, it rather just needs to know how to generate the new vector nodes
  - That means it is straight-forward to compute cost
  - And it also makes optimizations on that graph easier
  - And the `apply` methods are simpler too

----------------------------------

So therefore, the main goal was to make the `VTransform...Node::apply` calls simpler again. And move the logic back to `SuperWordVTransformBuilder::make_vector_vtnode_for_pack`.

One important step to making the the `VTransformGraph` less of a `PackSet` is to remove reliance on `nodes` for the vector nodes.

What I did:
- Moving a lot

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
