# JDK-8366223: ZGC: ZPageAllocator::cleanup_failed_commit_multi_partition is broken

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8366223](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8366223) |
| **PR** | [#26953](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/26953) |
| **Author** | xmas92 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-08-27 |
| **Merged** | 2025-08-28 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P2 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | gc/zgc |
| **代码变更** | +122 / -2 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | jsikstro, stefank (2 人) |

## 描述

While investigating [JDK-8366147](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8366147) we also found that ZPageAllocator::cleanup_failed_commit_multi_partition is broken.

The implementation is intended to work by going over each partitions part of the allocation one by one and returning any harvested or committed and mapped memory to to cache and returning any failed to be committed physical associations back to our internal free lists.

But when deriving what part of the memory is associated with which partition it uses the wrong variable and ends up working with the wrong memory. And multiple partitions will end up working on the same supposedly mutually exclusive memory.

This fix is to use the correct `partial_vmem` rather than `vmem` which holds the whole allocation.

The new test reproduces this error. The test is tightly coupled to the current ZPageAllocator implementation and its policies. We might want to enhance this test in the future to ensure that we are actually provoking commit failures with harvesting and get notified if this changes.  Currently there is no none intrusive way to do this. The best option might be our JFR events which contain all the information.

* Testing (In progress)
  * Oracle supported platforms tier1 + ZGC tier1-8

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8366223](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8366223): ZGC: ZPageAllocator::cleanup_failed_commit_multi_partition is broken (**Bug** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Stefan Karlsson](https://openjdk.org/census#stefank) (@stefank - **Reviewer**)
 * [Joel Sikström](https://openjdk.org/census#jsikstro) (@jsikstro - Committer)

### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>gi

## 变更文件

| 文件 | 状态 | +/- |
|------|------|-----|
| src/hotspot/share/gc/z/zPageAllocator.cpp | modified | +1/-1 |
| src/hotspot/share/gc/z/zPhysicalMemoryManager.cpp | modified | +12/-1 |
| src/hotspot/share/gc/z/z_globals.hpp | modified | +5/-0 |
| test/hotspot/jtreg/gc/z/TestCommitFailure.java | added | +104/-0 |

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
