# JDK-8303820: Simplify type metadata

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8303820](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8303820) |
| **PR** | [#12924](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/12924) |
| **Author** | mcimadamore |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-03-08 |
| **Merged** | 2023-03-10 |
| **审查天数** | 2 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | tools |
| **代码变更** | +141 / -317 (8 files) |
| **审查者** | mcimadamore, vicente-romero-oracle (2 人) |

## 描述

This patch simplifies the TypeMetadata API. TypeMetadata can be used as a side-channel, to attach extra information to a javac type (type annotations, constant values).

While TypeMetadata provides the right knobs to compare types (see `Type::equalsIgnoreMetadata`), which is used uniformly across the type-system related routines (e.g. subtyping, type equality and type containment), the TypeMetadata API is also rather cumbersome to use.

The only way to add a new metadata to a type is to "combine" the metadata into an existing one, which feels odd, and probably too biased by the type annotations requirements.

This patch simplifies this: now TypeMetadata is a simple marker interface. There can be many implementations - one is `Annotations` (used to store type annotations), another is `ConstantValue` (used to store a type's constant value).

A type is then associated with a `List<TypeMetadata>`, and there are methods to add/drop/get metadata. These methods are used to provide support for annotated and constant types.

The resulting code feels simpler: to add a new metadata, one only has to define a new class/record inside TypeMetadata, and that's pretty much it. Javac will truck the metadata around in the correct way (as it did before).

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8303820](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8303820): Simplify type metadata


### Reviewers
 * [Vicente Romero](https://openjdk.org/census#vromero) (@vicente-romero-oracle - **Reviewer**)


### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.org/jdk pull/12924/head:pull/12924` \
`$ git checkout pull/12924`

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
