# JDK-8303624: The java.lang.Thread.FieldHolder can be null for JNI attaching threads

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8303624](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8303624) |
| **PR** | [#12892](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/12892) |
| **Author** | dholmes-ora |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-03-06 |
| **Merged** | 2023-03-10 |
| **审查天数** | 4 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.lang |
| **代码变更** | +42 / -37 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | AlanBateman, dholmes-ora, rose00 (3 人) |

## 描述

To support virtual threads a number of fields were moved out of `java.lang.Thread` into a separate `FieldHolder` object. The VM was updated to then access certain thread fields via the `FieldHolder`. 

The code for attaching a thread to the VM, specifically `allocate_threadObj` didn't allow for the `Thread` constructor throwing an exception, and so failing to allocate the `FieldHolder` before attempting to access a field through the `FieldHolder`. This resulted in assertion failures in `javaClasses.cpp` (or crashes in a product build). That code is fixed to ensure we cease processing if the constructor throws an exception.

In addition, we need to recognise that whilst a native thread is attaching via JNI, it is partially initialized (to varying degrees) but also visible through JVMTI. Though the window is small JVMTI could get hold of an attaching thread and then invoke methods that would try to access uninitialized state. When this was state of `Thread` instance there was no problem as the object existed in its zero-initialized form (it had been allocated directly but no constructor run). However, anythng accessed via the `FieldHolder` is now a problem as the `FieldHolder` may not exist. So we modify all of the `FieldHolder` get/set methods to account for it being null: setters will do nothing, while getters return the default zero value for the field.

Testing: tiers 1-3 as a sanity test

There's no way to write a regression test for this.

Thanks.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8303624](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8303624): The java.lang.Thread.FieldHolder can be null for JNI attaching threads


### Reviewers
 * [Alan Bate

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
