# JDK-8303040: linux PPC64le: Implementation of Foreign Function & Memory API (Preview)

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8303040](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8303040) |
| **PR** | [#12708](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/12708) |
| **Author** | TheRealMDoerr |
| **组织** | SAP |
| **Created** | 2023-02-22 |
| **Merged** | 2023-05-24 |
| **审查天数** | 91 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | arch/ppc |
| **代码变更** | +2485 / -47 (27 files) |
| **审查者** | JornVernee, TheRealMDoerr, mcimadamore, reinrich (4 人) |

## 描述

Implementation of "Foreign Function & Memory API" for linux on Power (Little Endian) according to "Power Architecture 64-Bit ELF V2 ABI Specification".

This PR does not include code for VaList support because it's supposed to get removed by [JDK-8299736](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8299736). I've kept the related tests disabled for this platform and throw an exception instead. Note that the ABI doesn't precisely specify variable argument lists. Instead, it refers to `<stdarg.h>` (2.2.4 Variable Argument Lists).

Big Endian support is implemented to some extend, but not complete. E.g. structs with size not divisible by 8 are not passed correctly (see `useABIv2` in CallArranger.java). Big Endian is excluded by selecting `ARCH.equals("ppc64le")` (CABI.java) only.

There's another limitation: This PR only accepts structures with size divisible by 4. (An `IllegalArgumentException` gets thrown otherwise.) I think arbitrary sizes are not usable on other platforms, either, because `SharedUtils.primitiveCarrierForSize` only accepts powers of 2. Update: Resolved after merging of [JDK-8303017](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8303017)

The ABI has some tricky corner cases related to HFA (Homogeneous Float Aggregate). The same argument may need to get passed in both, a FP reg and a GP reg or stack slot (see "no partial DW rule"). This cases are not covered by the existing tests.

I had to make changes to shared code and code for other platforms:
1. Pass type information when creating `VMStorage` objects from `VMReg`. This is needed for the following reasons:
- PPC64 ABI requires integer types to get extended to 64 bit (also see CCallingConventionRequiresIntsAsLongs in existing hotspot code). We need to know the type or at least the bit width for that.
- Floating point load / store instructions need the correct width to select between the correct IEEE 754 formats. The register representation in single FP registers is always IEEE 754 double precision on P

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
