# JDK-8274883: (se) Selector.open throws IAE when the default file system provider is changed to a custom provider

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8274883](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8274883) |
| **PR** | [#6722](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/6722) |
| **Author** | mkartashev |
| **Created** | 2021-12-06 |
| **Merged** | 2021-12-07 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 18 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.io |
| **代码变更** | +256 / -5 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | AlanBateman, Michael-Mc-Mahon, mkartashev (3 人) |

## 描述

The gist of the problem: when a file system is specified via `-Djava.nio.file.spi.DefaultFileSystemProvider`, a call to `SelectorProvider.provider().openSelector()` ends with a throw on Windows.

There are two distinct components to the problem:

1. `ExceptionInInitializerError` is thrown during the static initialization of the `UnixDomainSockets.UNNAMED` field even though it isn't used on this code path (see `UnixDomainSocketAddress.of()` that throws `IllegalArgumentException` if invoked on a path from a non-default file system). 
This is fixed by lazy-initializing the static member `UNNAMED` of `UnixDomainSockets` so that this initialization doesn't throw unless actually used.

2. `IllegalArgumentException` is thrown by `UnixDomainSocketAddress.of()`  later on when `ServerSocketChannel` tries to use Windows version of `PipeImpl` and its method `createListener()` specifically. That `PipeImpl` probes for the availability of Unix Domain Sockets by trying to bind to a unique temporary name. That call throws `IAE` when a non-default Java file system is installed while the probing code (`PipeImpl.createListener()`) only expects `UnsupportedOperationException` or `IOException`.
The fix is to re-throw `UOE` instead of `IAE` in `UnixDomainSockets.genrateTempName()`. This is more consistent with the definition of the exception purpose ("requested operation is not supported"). So with this change, a loopback network socket will be used to implement a pipe on a non-default Java file system. Also, pipes do not rely on the default Java file system on other platforms (Linux, MacOS) as well.

Tested by running `jtreg:test/jdk/java/nio` on Window, MacOS, and Linux.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8274883](https://bugs.openjdk.java.ne

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
