# JDK-8274983: C1 optimizes the invocation of private interface methods

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8274983](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8274983) |
| **PR** | [#6445](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/6445) |
| **Author** | navyxliu |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-11-18 |
| **Merged** | 2021-11-30 |
| **审查天数** | 12 |
| **版本** | JDK 18 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c1 |
| **代码变更** | +107 / -12 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | dean-long, navyxliu, veresov (3 人) |

## 描述

The root cause of the C1 regression is that some regex generate multiple classes which all implement
an interface. In SlowStartupTest.java, the following **invokeinterface** happens frequently with different receivers. the target is a private interface method. 

```
9: invokeinterface #25,  3           // InterfaceMethod java/util/regex/Pattern$BmpCharPredicate.lambda$union$2:(Ljava/util/regex/Pattern$CharPredicate;I)Z
```

This patch allows c1 to generate the optimized virtual call for invokeinterface
whose targets are the private interface methods.

Before JDK-823835, LambdaMetaFactory generates invokespecial in this case. Because the private
interface methods can not be overrided, c1 generates the optimized virtual call. After JDK-823835,
LambdaMetaFactory generates invokeinterface instead. C1 generates the regular virtual call because
it can not recognize the new pattern. If a multiple of subclasses all implement a same interface,
it is possible that they trash the IC stub using their own concrete klass in runtime.

Optimized virtual call uses relocInfo::opt_virtual_call_type(3), It will call VM
'resolve_opt_virtual_call_C' once and resolve the target to the VEP of the nmethod.
Therefore, this patch can prevent the callsite from trashing.

Before this patch,   SlowStartupTest had 38770 times  _resolve_invoke_virtual_cnt and 38695  _handle_wrong_method_cnt per 10k iterations. To dump `C1Statistics`, we use fastdebug build for comparison.

```
$java -XX:TieredStopAtLevel=1 -XX:+PrintC1Statistics SlowStartupTest 1
Executed 10000 iterations in 736ms
C1 Runtime statistics:
 _resolve_invoke_virtual_cnt:     38770
 _resolve_invoke_opt_virtual_cnt: 186
 _resolve_invoke_static_cnt:      44
 _handle_wrong_method_cnt:        38695
 _ic_miss_cnt:                    35
```

With this patch,  only 1 _handle_wrong_method_cnt is triggered but we have 3 more `_resolve_invoke_opt_virtual_cnt` events instead.  The total runtime reduces from 736ms t

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
