# JDK-8274980: Improve adhoc build version strings

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8274980](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8274980) |
| **PR** | [#6152](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/6152) |
| **Author** | magicus |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-10-28 |
| **Merged** | 2022-02-14 |
| **审查天数** | 109 |
| **版本** | JDK 18 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | infrastructure |
| **模块** | build |
| **代码变更** | +82 / -63 (7 files) |
| **审查者** | erikj79, magicus, shipilev (3 人) |

## 描述

Current adhoc version build strings are not ideal. Some of the problems:
 * A build number of "0" is inserted, which make the version string look like it's an official build, at least when not reading carefully
 * The version string gives little indication on what source code the build was based

Also, an error was discovered in how the build system generates version strings without a build number (since this basically never happened before). A version without a build number,  and without a PRE value, but with an OPT value, should have a "+-" separator, according to JEP 223. While this was correctly handled, the "+-" separator was also applied to versions without a build, but with both PRE and OPT. In this case, the "+" should be omitted, according to JEP 223. This bug is fixed by this commit.

Ideally, the adhoc version string should include something along the lines of the output of `git describe`. However, since the version string is set at configure time, not build time, this will almost immediately become misleading. :-( A substitute is proposed in this patch, where the branch name is included in the OPT string (if it's not `master`).

Finally, this patch fixes hotspot so it can properly build without a build number. This was the last blocker for why the build system always required the "0" as build number before. To facilitate interoperability with external tools (like jib) that still sets build number to "0" to really signal "no build number", a build number exactly matching "0" will be interpreted as having no build number.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8274980](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8274980): Improve adhoc build version strings


### Reviewers
 * [Aleksey Shipilev](https://openjdk.java.net/c

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
