# JDK-8347129: cpuset cgroups controller is required for no good reason

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8347129](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8347129) |
| **PR** | [#23037](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/23037) |
| **Author** | jerboaa |
| **组织** | IBM |
| **Created** | 2025-01-10 |
| **Merged** | 2025-01-14 |
| **审查天数** | 4 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +6 / -4 (1 files) |
| **审查者** | ashu-mehra, tstuefe (2 人) |

## 描述

Please review this small change to make the `cpuset` cgroups controller optional as far as the JDK is concerned. The rationale is that:

- Some distributions now don't have it enabled by default (e.g. Fedora 41), which breaks automatic container detection logic.
- CPU limits enforced with `--cpuset-cpus` is reflected with the `sched_getaffinity` system call and, thus, the controller doesn't need to be mandatory. The current failure to detect the controller results in no container limits being detected with is bad.

The fix is rather simple. Make `cpuset` controller look-up from `/proc/cgroups` optional (like the `pids` controller) and continue. `OSContainer::active_processor_count()` still behaves as before (should there be a `cpuset` limit) as it's covered by `os::Linux::active_processor_count()` which serves as the upper bound of other container cpu limits.

While at it, I've also fixed the logging bug by re-arranging the `const char*` values. `cpuset` is index `0`, `cpu` is index `1`.

Testing:
- [x] GHA
- [x] Linux container tests in `test/hotspot/jtreg/containers` on Linux cgroups v1 and cgroups v2 as well as on an affected system (F41 on cg v2). All pass.

Thoughts?

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Warning
&nbsp;⚠️ Found leading lowercase letter in issue title for `8347129: cpuset cgroups controller is required for no good reason`

### Issue
 * [JDK-8347129](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8347129): cpuset cgroups controller is required for no good reason (**Bug** - P3)


### Reviewers
 * [Thomas Stuefe](https://openjdk.org/census#stuefe) (@tstuefe - **Reviewer**)
 * [Ashutosh Mehra](https://openjdk.org/census#asmehra) (@ashu-mehra - Com

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
