# JDK-8347794: RISC-V: Add Zfhmin - Float cleanup

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8347794](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8347794) |
| **PR** | [#23130](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/23130) |
| **Author** | robehn |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-01-15 |
| **Merged** | 2025-01-22 |
| **审查天数** | 7 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | arch/riscv |
| **代码变更** | +403 / -233 (8 files) |
| **审查者** | Hamlin-Li, RealFYang, robehn (3 人) |

## 描述

Hey, please consider.

I'm looking making RVA23 support complete and I was looking into adding Zfhmin.
I notice Zfh instructions didn't have any asserts checking if this extensions was enabled.
I then notice that we had the inferior instruction description using a funct7 instead of FMT + funct5.
We also had this same format repeated many times.

This patch takes all instructions format duplicates and replaces them with 'fp_base'.
fadd_s is thus described in code as:
`fp_base<S_32_sp, 0b00000>(Rd, Rs1, Rs2, rm);`
Instead of:
`INSN(fadd_s,   0b1010011, 0b0000000);`

It then moves zfh/zfhmin to a sepererate section and assert checks them.

Also as a bonus RoundingMode uses camel case while fclass_mask C, style.
So I changed fclass_mask to FClassBit, now thinking about it not sure if it should be bit or mask.
As in the context of the instruction fclass it is a bit, but when using the helpers e.g. zero it's a mask.

Tested:
jdk/java/lang/Math
jdk/java/util/Formatter/
jdk/java/lang/Float/
jdk/java/lang/Double/
hotspot/jtreg/compiler/floatingpoint/
hotspot/jtreg/compiler/c2/FloatingPointFoldingTest.java
hotspot/jtreg/compiler/eliminateAutobox/
hotspot/jtreg/vmTestbase/jit/

And tier1 twice, no FP issues. (Using UseZfh/min)

Thanks, Robbin

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8347794](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8347794): RISC-V: Add Zfhmin - Float cleanup (**Enhancement** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Fei Yang](https://openjdk.org/census#fyang) (@RealFYang - **Reviewer**)
 * [Hamlin Li](https://openjdk.org/census#mli) (@Hamlin-Li - **Reviewer**)

### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout th

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
