# JDK-8329729: java/util/Properties/StoreReproducibilityTest.java times out

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8329729](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8329729) |
| **PR** | [#18681](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18681) |
| **Author** | jaikiran |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-04-09 |
| **Merged** | 2024-04-10 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +4 / -1 (1 files) |
| **审查者** | AlanBateman (1 人) |

## 描述

Can I please get a review of this test-only change which proposes to address the intermittent failures in `java/util/Properties/StoreReproducibilityTest.java`? This should address https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8329729.

These failures in `StoreReproducibilityTest` have been observed in higher tiers where the test tasks are launched with various JVM options, one of them being `-Xcomp`. The goal of the `StoreReproducibilityTest` is to verify that the content which the `java.util.Properties` code generates for a properties file and reproducible across multiple different runs/launches of an Java application. To do that it launches a test application (using `java` command) several times within the test (for different scenarios). That comes up to a combined total of 25 launches, for different scenarios. Normally each such launch of the `java` application completes within a second or two. 

Recently, we have been updating our tests to pass along the JVM options that were used for launching the test task, to the child processes that are launched from within the tests. That now means that these trivial small java application that this test launches several times will now be passed the `-Xcomp` option too (when the test task is launched with that option). It has been observed that when `-Xcomp` is used to launch those trivial applications from within the test, each such application takes around 30 seconds to a minute to complete. This then causes the test to timeout.

Given the context of this test case, it's not necessary to run this test when `-Xcomp` is used. The commit in this PR add a `@requires` to disable this test when `-Xcomp` is present in the test task's JVM args. 

I've run this change in our CI and the test continues to run (and pass) when `-Xcomp` is absent and is skipped when it is present.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed


> **Backported to**: JDK 21u

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
