# JDK-8228343: JCMD and attach fail to work across Linux Container boundary

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8228343](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8228343) |
| **PR** | [#4418](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/4418) |
| **Author** | kevinjwalls |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-06-08 |
| **Merged** | 2021-06-09 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | core-svc |
| **模块** | tools/diagnostic |
| **代码变更** | +7 / -7 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | YaSuenag, kevinjwalls, sspitsyn (3 人) |

## 描述

Since 8214300, jcmd cannot attach to a Java process in a docker container.

That change started using a canonicalized File to create the .attach_pidXXX file.  For a target process in a container, it will follow a symlink that is likely not the same as for the target process.  e.g. follow a symlink to a cwd of / which is not the same directory for the container host, as it is within the container.  Containerized VM never sees the file, never creates the socket file, the attach times out and fails.

To keep the 8214300 change working for non-container situations, we can keep a canonical version of the attach File to use for deleting.

For containers there will remain the problem 8214300 describes, although it is unlikely: if you start the attach to a containerized VM,  and it then exits, we can't delete the .attach_pidXXX file.  Neither the /proc/PID/cwd or canonical form are any use.

(Possibly leaving a .attach_pidXXX file if the target dies in that small window is better than the current situation.)

Here I'm suggesting the same change on AIX, although I can't build/test that.  I'm expecting it has the same problem, as /proc/pid/cwd is still a symlink.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8228343](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8228343): JCMD and attach fail to work across Linux Container boundary


### Reviewers
 * [Yasumasa Suenaga](https://openjdk.java.net/census#ysuenaga) (@YaSuenag - **Reviewer**)
 * [Serguei Spitsyn](https://openjdk.java.net/census#sspitsyn) (@sspitsyn - **Reviewer**)


### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk pull/4418/head:pull/4418` \
`$ git checkout pull/4418`

Update a local copy of the P

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
