# JDK-8256541: Sort out what version of awk is used in the build system

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8256541](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8256541) |
| **PR** | [#1470](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/1470) |
| **Author** | magicus |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2020-11-26 |
| **Merged** | 2020-11-30 |
| **审查天数** | 4 |
| **版本** | JDK 16 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | infrastructure |
| **模块** | build |
| **代码变更** | +26 / -31 (15 files) |
| **审查者** | erikj79 (1 人) |

## 描述

For historical reasons, there exists a variety of different implementations of awk: awk (the original implementation), gawk (the GNU version), nawk (new awk, iirc) and the lesser known mawk. 

Things are complicated by the fact that the original awk is seldom used, but instead gawk or nawk is typically symlinked to be named "awk". 

In terms of functionality there are very few differences. The original awk is most limited, while nawk and gawk is mostly replaceable. 

So the conditions for this is somewhat messy, but we manage impressively to mess it up even further. :-) 

We set up the following definitions: 
`BASIC_REQUIRE_PROGS(NAWK, [nawk gawk awk])`
`BASIC_REQUIRE_SPECIAL(AWK, [AC_PROG_AWK])`
and `AC_PROG_AWK`, according to the documentation, "[c]heck for gawk, mawk, nawk, and awk, in that order". 

So, if you have nawk and awk (but no other) installed, both NAWK and AWK will be set to nawk. If you have only awk, both will be set to awk. The difference is if you have gawk installed, then NAWK will be nawk and AWK will be gawk. 

As an example, on my mac, I only have the original awk, so both AWK and NAWK will be awk. 

On my ubuntu box, things are even more confused. I have: 
```
$ ls -l /usr/bin/*awk 
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 21 Feb 6 10:36 awk -> /etc/alternatives/awk* 
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 658072 Feb 11 2018 gawk* 
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 3189 Feb 11 2018 igawk* 
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 125416 Apr 3 2018 mawk* 
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 22 Feb 6 10:37 nawk -> /etc/alternatives/nawk* 

$ ls -l /etc/alternatives/*awk 
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 13 Feb 10 10:56 /etc/alternatives/awk -> /usr/bin/gawk* 
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 13 Feb 10 10:56 /etc/alternatives/nawk -> /usr/bin/gawk* 
```

So awk, nawk and gawk all executes the same binary, i.e. gawk. Only mawk is different. So on that machine, AWK would be gawk and NAWK would be nawk, but both will execute gawk. 

I propose that we remove NAWK, and only use AWK, but we should stop using AC_P

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
