# JDK-8256818: SSLSocket that is never bound or connected leaks socket resources

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8256818](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8256818) |
| **PR** | [#1363](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/1363) |
| **Author** | RealCLanger |
| **组织** | SAP |
| **Created** | 2020-11-21 |
| **Merged** | 2020-12-02 |
| **审查天数** | 11 |
| **版本** | JDK 16 |
| **优先级** | P2 |
| **组件** | security-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.net |
| **代码变更** | +114 / -32 (5 files) |
| **审查者** | RealCLanger, XueleiFan (2 人) |

## 描述

There is a flaw in sun.security.ssl.SSLSocketImpl::close() which leads to leaking socket resources after JDK-8224829.

The close method calls duplexCloseOutput() and duplexCloseInput(). In case of an exception in any of these methods, the call to closeSocket() is bypassed, and the underlying Socket may not be closed.

This manifests in a real life leak after JDK-8224829 has introduced a call to getSoLinger() on the path of duplexCloseOutput -> closeNotify. If socket impl / OS socket hadn't been created yet it is done at that place. But then after duplexCloseOutput eventually fails with a SocketException since the socket wasn't connected, closing fails to call Socket::close().

This problem can be reproduced by this code:
		        SSLSocket sslSocket = (SSLSocket)SSLSocketFactory.getDefault().createSocket();
		        sslSocket.getSSLParameters();
		        sslSocket.close();

This is what happens when SSLContext.getDefault().getDefaultSSLParameters() is called, with close() being eventually called by the finalizer.

I'll open this PR as draft for now to start discussion. I'll create a testcase to reproduce the issue and add it soon.

I propose to modify the close method such that duplexClose is only done on a connected/bound socket. Maybe it even suffices to only do it when connected.

Secondly, I'm proposing to improve exception handling a bit. So in case there's an IOException on the path of duplexClose, it is caught and logged. But the real close moves to the finally block since it should be done unconditionally.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8256818](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8256818): SSLSocket that is never bound or connected leaks socket resources


### Reviewers
 * [Xue-Lei Andrew Fan](

## 变更文件

| 文件 | 状态 | +/- |
|------|------|-----|
| src/java.base/share/classes/sun/security/ssl/SSLSocketImpl.java | modified | +23/-14 |
| test/jdk/java/lang/ProcessBuilder/checkHandles/CheckHandles.java | modified | +7/-9 |
| test/jdk/sun/security/ssl/SSLSocketImpl/SSLSocketLeak.java | added | +59/-0 |
| test/lib/jdk/test/lib/util/FileUtils.java | modified | +24/-8 |
| test/lib/jdk/test/lib/util/libFileUtils.c | renamed | +1/-1 |

## 审查讨论

- **XueleiFan**: This test case may be not reliable if there are some other test cases or applications running at the same time.  It's a good manual test, but might be
- **XueleiFan**: See bellow comment, I may suggest to have it as a manual test case if you agree the test case could be impacted. @run main/manual SSLSocketLeak
- **RealCLanger**: Hm, I think it's fine as it is. Running it in othervm will make sure the test runs in its own vm (see http://openjdk.java.net/jtreg/command-help.html)

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
