# JDK-8176567: nsk/jdi/ReferenceType/instances/instances002: TestFailure: Unexpected size of referenceType.instances(nsk.share

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8176567](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8176567) |
| **PR** | [#6943](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/6943) |
| **Author** | plummercj |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-01-02 |
| **Merged** | 2022-01-18 |
| **审查天数** | 16 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-svc |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +15 / -16 (1 files) |
| **审查者** | alexmenkov, plummercj, sspitsyn (3 人) |

## 描述

The test is failing because it is detecting an extra instance of `TestClass1`. The test (the debugger side) first tells the debuggee to create 10 instances of `TestClass1`. The debugger then uses JDI `ClassType.newInstance()` to create 100 more instances. It then resumes the debuggee and uses `RefrenceType.instances()` to find out how many instances of `TestClass1` are reachable. Since the 100 created by `ClassType.newInstance()` should not have any references keeping them live, the answer should be 10, but sometimes it ends up being 11, so there is an extra instance.

I determined that this extra instance is always the last of the 100 that are created with `ClassType.newInstance()`. It uses the JDI/JDWP invoker interface. I found the following code in the debug agent invoker.c to be the problem:

```
    if (!detached) {
        outStream_initReply(&out, id);
        (void)outStream_writeValue(env, &out, tag, returnValue);
        (void)outStream_writeObjectTag(env, &out, exc);
        (void)outStream_writeObjectRef(env, &out, exc);
        outStream_sendReply(&out);
    }
…
    if (mustReleaseReturnValue && returnValue.l != NULL) {
        tossGlobalRef(env, &returnValue.l);
    }
```

The first block is responsible for sending the reply to the debugger for the JDI `ClassType.newInstance()` call. `returnValue` is a JNI global ref to the object that was just created, and `tossGlobalRef()` frees it after the reply packet has been sent. The problem is that once the reply packet has been received by the debugger (for the 100th `TestClass1` allocation), it resumes the debuggee and issues the `ReferenceType.instances()` call. This might be handled by the debug agent before it ever gets to the `tossGlobalRef()` call. So there will still be a reference to the 100th `TestClass1` object.

The fix is to call `tossGlobalRef()` after we are done with `returnValue`, but before sending out the packet. We are done with `returnValue` once the `outStream_writeVa

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
