# JDK-8176501: Method Shape.getBounds2D() incorrectly includes Bezier control points in bounding box

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8176501](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8176501) |
| **PR** | [#6227](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/6227) |
| **Author** | mickleness |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-11-03 |
| **Merged** | 2022-04-27 |
| **审查天数** | 175 |
| **版本** | JDK 18 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | client-libs |
| **模块** | build |
| **代码变更** | +599 / -119 (6 files) |
| **审查者** | bourgesl, mickleness, prrace (3 人) |

## 描述

This removes code that relied on consulting the Bezier control points to calculate the Rectangle2D bounding box. Instead it's pretty straight-forward to convert the Bezier control points into the x & y parametric equations. At their most complex these equations are cubic polynomials, so calculating their extrema is just a matter of applying the quadratic formula to calculate their extrema. (Or in path segments that are quadratic/linear/constant: we do even less work.)

The bug writeup indicated they wanted Path2D#getBounds2D() to be more accurate/concise. They didn't explicitly say they wanted CubicCurve2D and QuadCurve2D to become more accurate too. But a preexisting unit test failed when Path2D#getBounds2D() was updated and those other classes weren't. At this point I considered either:
A. Updating CubicCurve2D and QuadCurve2D to use the new more accurate getBounds2D() or
B. Updating the unit test to forgive the discrepancy.

I chose A. Which might technically be seen as scope creep, but it feels like a more holistic/better approach.

Other shapes in java.awt.geom should not require updating, because they already identify concise bounds.

This also includes a new unit test (in Path2D/UnitTest.java) that fails without the changes in this commit.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed
- [x] Change requires a CSR request to be approved

### Issues
 * [JDK-8176501](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8176501): Method Shape.getBounds2D() incorrectly includes Bezier control points in bounding box
 * [JDK-8283602](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8283602): Method Shape.getBounds2D() incorrectly includes Bezier control points in bounding box (**CSR**)


### Reviewers
 * [Phil Race](https://openjdk.java.net/census#prr) (@prrace - **Review

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
