# JDK-8351500: G1: NUMA migrations cause crashes in region allocation

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8351500](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8351500) |
| **PR** | [#23984](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/23984) |
| **Author** | tstuefe |
| **组织** | Red Hat |
| **Created** | 2025-03-11 |
| **Merged** | 2025-03-13 |
| **审查天数** | 2 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | gc/g1 |
| **代码变更** | +42 / -36 (5 files) |
| **审查者** | kstefanj, rkennke, tschatzl (3 人) |

## 描述

For details, please see JBS issue.

_Please note that this bug only shows symptoms in JDK 21 and JDK 17! Due to code shuffling done as part of G1 region-local pinning work, the error does not show in JDKs 22 and later._

I originally planned to fix this just for JDK 21 and 17 (see https://github.com/openjdk/jdk21u-dev/pull/1460). However, I would rather have it fixed in the mainline, even though it is symptom-free. It is a lingering issue that may surface later if the code is ever changed. Plus, this prevents the fix from being accidentally overwritten in JDK 21 if we backport.

----

The fix is simple: we fix (hah) the NUMA association for the full duration of a heap allocation in G1. That way, regardless of the OS scheduler moving the thread to a different NUMA node, we always use the same `G1AllocRegion` object, and changes in the control flow that rely on that won't break on NUMA.

This has the disadvantage of allocating memory from a node we are potentially moving away from. However, I argue that this is exceedingly rare, and if it happens, the OS will cope by eventually migrating the memory to the correct node.

---

Testing:

Testing is difficult. See remark in JBS issue. 

I tested a modified version of this patch on JDK 21, where the error does cause crashes. I tested with an additional patch mimicking tons of NUMA node migrations. As I wrote in JBS, I plan to contribute that "FakeNUMA" mode eventually, but lack the time to polish it up for now. I hope the fix is simple and uncontested enough to go in quickly, since I would like to fix JDK 21 soon via backporting this patch.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8351500](htt

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
