# JDK-8351372: Improve negative tests coverage of jpackage

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8351372](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8351372) |
| **PR** | [#23936](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/23936) |
| **Author** | alexeysemenyukoracle |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-03-06 |
| **Merged** | 2025-03-17 |
| **审查天数** | 11 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +1653 / -735 (37 files) |
| **审查者** | alexeysemenyukoracle, sashamatveev (2 人) |

## 描述

Changes to tests:
 - Added more test cases to ErrorTest.
 - Added functionality to jpackage test lib to facilitate new ErrorTest test cases.
 - Make all other negative tests use the `CannedFormattedString` class to validate error messages in jpackage output strictly.
 - Removed redundant negative tests/test cases duplicating ErrorTest.
 - Give unique descriptions to macos signing tests.
 
Changes to jpackage:
 - Main.java: Catch `java.nio.file.NoSuchFileException` as `jdk.internal.opt.CommandLine.parse()` throws this exception instead of  `java.io.FileNotFoundException` to indicate missing command file. The issue was uncovered with the new ErrorTest test case for `ERR_CannotParseOptions` error ID.
 - DeployParams.java: replace `ERR_MissingArgument` with `error.no-input-parameter` as the error is not missing argument of `--input` parameter, but missing `--input` parameter itself. The issue was uncovered with the new ErrorTest test cases for `ERR_MissingArgument` and ``error.no-input-parameter` error IDs.
 - LauncherData.java: remove dead code as missing `--input` parameter is handled earlier in DeployParams.
 - DottedVersion.java: fix exception messages based on the new test cases in ErrorTest.
 - TokenRepalce.java/TokenRepalceTest.java: picked from https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/23923 PR. It is needed for ErrorTest as well.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issues
 * [JDK-8351372](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8351372): Improve negative tests coverage of jpackage (**Enhancement** - P3)
 * [JDK-8351446](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8351446): Improve negative tests coverage of jpackage (**CSR**) (Withdrawn)


### Reviewers
 * [Alexan

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
