# JDK-8351958: Some compile commands should be made diagnostic

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8351958](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8351958) |
| **PR** | [#25150](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/25150) |
| **Author** | marc-chevalier |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-05-09 |
| **Merged** | 2025-05-22 |
| **审查天数** | 13 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +89 / -48 (6 files) |
| **审查者** | TobiHartmann, marc-chevalier, vnkozlov (3 人) |

## 描述

Error when using a `CompileCommand` that is an alias for a diagnostic option when `-XX:+UnlockDiagnosticVMOptions` is not provided.

The argument processing works this way:
1. Flags are parsed, setting the value accordingly. For `CompileCommand`, each option is added to a  `\n`-separated string. At this step, if a flag is diagnostic but `-XX:+UnlockDiagnosticVMOptions` is not provided, then an error message is emitted, argument parsing fails and the VM terminates. Yet, the value of `CompileCommand` is still an unparsed list of string.
2. Eventually, `CompileCommand` is parsed. For some of them, the value of regular flag is used as the default value, and as far as I know, it's the only mapping between `CompileCommand` and the equivalent flag. Moreover, at this point, the order of the various command line arguments is lost: it is not possible to know which `CompileCommand` comes before or after the `-XX:+UnlockDiagnosticVMOptions`.

Moreover, `CompileCommand` are parsed in the same way as compiler directives coming from a file. If we complain about diagnostic `CompileCommand`, we should also when coming from a directive file, for consistency. But then, while the relative order of `CompileCommand` and `-XX:+UnlockDiagnosticVMOptions` is lost, it simply makes no sense to compare the ordering of command line arguments and directives from a file.

So, before the difficulty and the relative lack of sense, I defaulted to ignore the ordering requirement. And by using the `CompileCommand` error reporting mechanism, we get an error that is consistent with other `CompileCommand`-parsing related errors, e.g.
```
CompileCommand: An error occurred during parsing
Error: VM option 'PrintAssembly' is diagnostic and must be enabled via -XX:+UnlockDiagnosticVMOptions.
Line: 'PrintAssembly,*::*'

Usage: '-XX:CompileCommand=<option>,<method pattern>' - to set boolean option to true
Usage: '-XX:CompileCommand=<option>,<method pattern>,<value>'
Use:   '-XX:CompileCommand=he

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
