# JDK-8351280: Mark Assertion Predicates useless instead of replacing them by a constant directly

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8351280](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8351280) |
| **PR** | [#23941](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/23941) |
| **Author** | chhagedorn |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-03-07 |
| **Merged** | 2025-03-10 |
| **审查天数** | 3 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | arch/x86 |
| **代码变更** | +194 / -79 (6 files) |
| **审查者** | chhagedorn, eme64, rwestrel (3 人) |

## 描述

This patch is a preparatory patch for fixing https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/23823 (already out for review) without relying on predicate matching during IGVN (currently proposed matching with IGVN but after looking into it and further discussions with @rwestrel, we think it's best to do it outside IGVN).

### Update Assertion Predicate Killing Mechanism
The main contribution of this patch is to update the killing mechanism of Assertion Predicates. Currently, we kill an Assertion Predicate by replacing its `Opaque*AssertionPredicate` node with `ConI [int:1]`. This creates problems in our predicate matching code (see for example, [JDK-8350637](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8350637)). To fix this and prepare for https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/23823, we move to a different approach. 

#### Mark Opaque*AssertionPredicate` Nodes Useless
Instead of directly inserting constants, we mark `Opaque*AssertionPredicate` nodes useless when we find that an Assertion Predicate should be removed. In the next IGVN phase, we are folding it by taking the success path. This requires the following updates:
- Introduce `_useless` flags at `Opaque*AssertionPredicate` nodes and associated mark methods.
  - Check the flags in `Value()` and return `TypeInt::ONE` if we find them useless.
- Adding `cmp()` method for `OpaqueInitializedAssertionPredicate` to avoid commoning up a useless with a useful node.
- `OpaqueTemplateAssertionPredicate` nodes are by design unique to the Template Assertion Predicate because they have non-hashable `OpaqueLoop*` nodes on their input paths. I still added `hash()` that returns `NO_HASH` as an additional guarantee/contract.

#### Update Predicate Iteration Code
To make this new approach work, we need to update the predicate iteration code. We still match Assertion Predicates with an `OpaqueAssertion*Node` to skip over them but we skip to call the `visit()` method since there should not be any work to be done for killed Assertion Predica

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
