# JDK-8291752: AArch64: Remove check_emit_size parameter from trampoline_call

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8291752](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8291752) |
| **PR** | [#9782](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/9782) |
| **Author** | eastig |
| **组织** | Amazon |
| **Created** | 2022-08-05 |
| **Merged** | 2022-08-10 |
| **审查天数** | 5 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | arch/aarch64 |
| **代码变更** | +33 / -24 (5 files) |
| **审查者** | eastig, theRealAph, vnkozlov (3 人) |

## 描述

`MacroAssembler::trampoline_call` can skip generation of a trampoline stub if C2 phase output is in the checking emitted code size mode. If it is not C2 compilation, `trampoline_call` always generates a trampoline stub. 

`gen_continuation_enter` as a part of C2 compilation needed to disable the functionality above. Now `trampoline_call` has the `check_emit_size` which allows to disable the functionality completely. Its default value is `true` which means the functionality is enabled.

There are problems:
- C2 specific code which must be properly guarded if it is not C2 compilation. The code has the risk of undefined behaviour (UB). It is done with `is_c2_compile`. [JDK-8291654](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8291654) is an example of changes caused UB.
- The default value of `check_emit_size`. The current value `true` allows C1 to access the C2 specific code. Setting the default value to `false` will require to review and to update every existing use of `trampoline_call`. It will complicate uses of `trampoline_call`: each time a decision needs to be done - use or not use the default.

Summary of changes:
- Have a virtual `in_scratch_emit_size` returning `false` by default. It is privately overridden in `C2_MacroAssembler`. The overridden  version returns `true` if C2 phase output is in the checking emitted code size mode.
- `check_emit_size` is removed because it is not needed any more.

Tested with fastdebug/release builds:
- `gtest`: Passed.
- `tier1`...`tier4`: Passed.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8291752](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8291752): AArch64: Remove check_emit_size parameter from trampoline_call


###

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
