# JDK-8291555: Implement alternative fast-locking scheme

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8291555](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8291555) |
| **PR** | [#10907](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/10907) |
| **Author** | rkennke |
| **组织** | Datadog |
| **Created** | 2022-10-28 |
| **Merged** | 2023-05-08 |
| **审查天数** | 192 |
| **版本** | JDK 20 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | runtime/threading |
| **代码变更** | +2484 / -807 (70 files) |
| **审查者** | RealFYang, dholmes-ora, rkennke, robehn, tstuefe, vnkozlov (6 人) |

## 描述

This change adds a fast-locking scheme as an alternative to the current stack-locking implementation. It retains the advantages of stack-locking (namely fast locking in uncontended code-paths), while avoiding the overload of the mark word. That overloading causes massive problems with Lilliput, because it means we have to check and deal with this situation when trying to access the mark-word. And because of the very racy nature, this turns out to be very complex and would involve a variant of the inflation protocol to ensure that the object header is stable. (The current implementation of setting/fetching the i-hash provides a glimpse into the complexity).

What the original stack-locking does is basically to push a stack-lock onto the stack which consists only of the displaced header, and CAS a pointer to this stack location into the object header (the lowest two header bits being 00 indicate 'stack-locked'). The pointer into the stack can then be used to identify which thread currently owns the lock.

This change basically reverses stack-locking: It still CASes the lowest two header bits to 00 to indicate 'fast-locked' but does *not* overload the upper bits with a stack-pointer. Instead, it pushes the object-reference to a thread-local lock-stack. This is a new structure which is basically a small array of oops that is associated with each thread. Experience shows that this array typcially remains very small (3-5 elements). Using this lock stack, it is possible to query which threads own which locks. Most importantly, the most common question 'does the current thread own me?' is very quickly answered by doing a quick scan of the array. More complex queries like 'which thread owns X?' are not performed in very performance-critical paths (usually in code like JVMTI or deadlock detection) where it is ok to do more complex operations (and we already do). The lock-stack is also a new set of GC roots, and would be scanned during thread scanning, possibly concurrentl

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
