# JDK-8313931: Javadoc: links to type parameters actually generate links to classes

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8313931](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8313931) |
| **PR** | [#20494](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/20494) |
| **Author** | hns |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-08-07 |
| **Merged** | 2024-08-09 |
| **审查天数** | 2 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | arch/x86 |
| **代码变更** | +336 / -91 (26 files) |
| **审查者** | hns, jonathan-gibbons (2 人) |

## 描述

Please review a JavaDoc change to make it possible to link to type parameter documentation from automatically generated signatures as well as user-defined `{@link ...}` and `@see ...` tags. The solution consists in wrapping type parameter documentation into `<span id="type-param-[type-param-name]">` elements for generic classes and `<span id="[member-signature]-type-param-[type-param-name]">` for generic members. 

While this is not a very big change, there are a few aspects and considerations that need to be explained.

- Class-level type parameter documentation had to be moved out of the `<div class="horizontal-scroll">` element for the main class description because of [this bug in Chrome](https://issues.chromium.org/issues/40074749). The only viable solution was to move the scroll container beneath the `<hr>` element, which is the way it is already done for package and module pages. This has almost no visual effects on the way pages are rendered, I'd be happy to discuss the stylesheet tweaks if there's interest.

- JavaDoc only creates links for type parameters in generic types, but not those belonging to generic methods and constructors. While I added support for linking member-level type parameters, I soon realized that these links add a lot of visual noise by adding redundant links from member-level descriptions and signatures to the details of the same member. Displaying only type-level type parameters as links is actually quite helpful in allowing to distinguish them from member-level type parameters. The [documentation of `java.util.Map`](https://cr.openjdk.org/~hannesw/8313931/api.02/java.base/java/util/Map.html#method-summary) illustrates this nicely. The solution I settled for is to allow linking to [member-level type parameters](https://cr.openjdk.org/~hannesw/8313931/api.02/java.base/java/util/Set.html#of(E)-type-param-E) using `{@link ...}` and `@see ...` tags if a `@param` tag is provided for the type parameter, but not create such links for a

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
