# JDK-8271566: DSA signature length value is not accurate in P11Signature

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8271566](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8271566) |
| **PR** | [#4961](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/4961) |
| **Author** | martinuy |
| **Created** | 2021-08-02 |
| **Merged** | 2021-12-06 |
| **审查天数** | 126 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | security-libs |
| **模块** | runtime/serviceability |
| **代码变更** | +568 / -307 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | martinuy, valeriepeng (2 人) |

## 描述

As described in JDK-8271566 [1], this patch proposal is intended to fix a problem that arises when using DSA keys that have a 256-bits (or larger) G parameter for signatures (either signing or verifying). There were some incorrect assumptions and hard-coded length values in the code before. Please note that, for example, the tuple (2048, 256) for DSA is valid according to FIPS PUB 186-4.

Beyond the specific issues in signatures, I decided to provide a broader solution and enable key parameter retrieval for other key types (EC, DH) when possible. This is, when the key is not sensitive. One thing that I should note here is that token keys (those that have the CKA_TOKEN attribute equal to 'true') are considered sensitive in this regard, at least by the NSS Software Token implementation. I don't have access to other vendor implementations but if there is any concern, we can adjust the constraint to NSS-only. However, I'm not sure which use-case would require to get private keys out of a real token, weakening its security. I'd be more conservative here and not query the values if not sure that it will succeed.

No regressions found in jdk/sun/security/pkcs11. A new test added: LargerDSAKey.

--
[1] - https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8271566

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8271566](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8271566): DSA signature length value is not accurate in P11Signature


### Reviewers
 * [Valerie Peng](https://openjdk.java.net/census#valeriep) (@valeriepeng - **Reviewer**)


### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk pull/4961/head:pull/4961` \
`$ git checkout pull/4961`

Update a local copy of the PR:


> **Backported to**: JDK 17u

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
