# JDK-8316959: Improve InlineCacheBuffer pending queue management

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8316959](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8316959) |
| **PR** | [#16059](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/16059) |
| **Author** | tschatzl |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-10-05 |
| **Merged** | 2023-10-17 |
| **审查天数** | 12 |
| **版本** | JDK 22 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +31 / -14 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | dean-long, tschatzl, vnkozlov (3 人) |

## 描述

Hi all,

  please review this change that makes enqueuing `CompiledICHolder`s into the `InlineCacheBuffer::_pending_list` lock free. This reduces time clearing IC call sites when unlinking during parallel code cache unloading by 40% (at 16 threads, with 60k unloaded nmethods) affecting G1, Shenandoah. 

I do not expect any noticeable difference for other collectors unloading serially (an uncontended mutex should be similar in performance than the CAS).

The implementation is fairly straightforward, some comments:
* I do not know why the previous implementation used `InlineCacheBuffer_lock` for guarding access to the pending list. This and the other user do not share any of the affected variables.
* managing the pending count using atomic increments is as problematic wrt to consistency with other code reading from it as before as the readers did not take the lock either. Code review showed that the time of when the code is executed seem to be disjoint enough (i.e. inside/outside safepoint, after synchronization). As mentioned, no difference here.
* `InlineCacheBuffer::release_pending_icholders` is as unguarded wrt to races with `queue_for_release` as before.

Note that there can be a performance/pause time problem with ZGC wrt to `InlineCacheBuffer::release_pending_icholders`: releasing (a lot of them) in the safepoint used for it can take a few ms alone (In my stress test 6-7ms) which might break some guarantees (otoh it's strictly speaking not the GC taking such a long stw pause). This also did not change to before.

Testing: tier1-5, code unloading stress testing

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8316959](https://bugs.openjdk.org/br

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
