# JDK-8316179: Use consistent naming for lightweight locking in MacroAssembler

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8316179](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8316179) |
| **PR** | [#15709](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/15709) |
| **Author** | stefank |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-09-13 |
| **Merged** | 2023-09-14 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 22 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | arch/x86 |
| **代码变更** | +78 / -78 (29 files) |
| **审查者** | coleenp, dholmes-ora, rkennke (3 人) |

## 描述

Different platforms uses different names for the `MacroAssembler` functions that implement the lightweight fast locking/unlocking code. I propose that we use consistent naming for all platforms.

These are the current names for the lightweight-locking functions:
* AArch64, ppc, riscv: `fast_lock`
* x86: `fast_lock_impl`
* arm: `fast_lock_2`

Note that x86 and arm uses different names and the likely reason for that is that the `C2_MacroAssembler` subclass also implements a fast_lock function in that class, on those platforms.

The fast_lock function in `C2_MacroAssembler` deals with the fast locking for all `LockingMode` implementations (monitor, legacy, and lightweight), while the `MacroAssembler::fast_lock*` functions only implement the lightweight locking implementation.

I therefore propose that we use the name `MacroAssembler::lightweight_lock` on all platforms.

*Note* that this is a small cleanup to update the names. The reason why I'm looking into this is that I want to move the C2 fast locking code out of the AArch64 (and other platforms) .ad file into C++ files to make it consistent with the x64 code structure (and to get better IDE support when the code is in plain C++ files). In that restructuring of the code I'm introducing `C2_MacroAssembler::fast_lock` functions that currently name-clash / shadow the `MacroAssembler::fast_lock` functions.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8316179](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8316179): Use consistent naming for lightweight locking in MacroAssembler (**Enhancement** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Roman Kennke](https://openjdk.org/census#rkennke) (@rkennke - **Reviewer**)
 * [Coleen Phil

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
