# JDK-8316946: jtreg failure handler pages are mislabelling the jcmd/thread/dump_to_file results.

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8316946](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8316946) |
| **PR** | [#15939](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/15939) |
| **Author** | jaikiran |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-09-27 |
| **Merged** | 2023-09-28 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 22 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | infrastructure |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.io |
| **代码变更** | +9 / -3 (1 files) |
| **审查者** | dholmes-ora (1 人) |

## 描述

Can I please get a review of this change which addresses the issue noted in https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8316946?

Failure handler actions can specify a "successArtifacts" property value, which are file name(s) for which hypherlinks will be created in the "processes.html" file. This property value can contain replacable placeholder tokens like "%p" (process id) "%iterCount" (iteration count, if the action's command is repeated).

The issue here was caused by a bug in the handling of the "successArtifacts" value. If there were more than one process for which we were running the action (of collecting thread dumps), then the original (raw) value of "successArtifacts" property wasn't being held on to. As a result, for the second process for which the hyperlink was being created, an incorrect link would be generated.

The commit here retains the raw value of "successArtifacts" property in the `PatternAction` (just like we do for "args" property) so that it can be used to repeatedly replace the placeholders, each time the action is run for a different process.

I've run this change against our internal CI to verify it doesn't cause any regressions. tier1, tier2 and tier3 was run successfully. Additionally, I have run a couple of jtreg test cases which intentionally timeout, so that I can verify that the generated "processes.html" now contains the correct hyperlinks to the thread dump files for each process.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8316946](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8316946): jtreg failure handler pages are mislabelling the jcmd/thread/dump_to_file results. (**Bug** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [David Holmes](https://openjd

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
