# JDK-8341819: LightweightSynchronizer::enter_for races with deflation

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8341819](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8341819) |
| **PR** | [#21420](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/21420) |
| **Author** | xmas92 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-10-09 |
| **Merged** | 2024-10-10 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 24 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | runtime/threading |
| **代码变更** | +18 / -2 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | pchilano, rkennke (2 人) |

## 描述

This is a regression from [JDK-8315884](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8315884).

When using `+UseObjectMonitorTable` monitors are inflated in a locked state effectively blocking out deflation. `LightweightSynchronizer::enter_for` assumed this to be true. But when the `-UseObjectMonitorTable` path was added `// Do the old inflate and enter.` this is no longer true as it first inflates a monitor in an unlocked state and then tries to lock. We need to introduce a retry loop similar to what was used before [JDK-8315884](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8315884).

I propose we add this retry loop for both cases, to decouple the `LightweightSynchronizer::enter_for` from how lock elimination is done. With a retry loop, the only requirements for using `LightweightSynchronizer::enter_for` is that the Object locked on cannot have been locked on by another thread, i.e. there is no contention, but makes no assumptions on the interaction with the deflation thread.

For `-UseObjectMonitorTable` 7bdbe114eb57fe7310f9664a434c4d9203e656fc should be enough, as it will assist the deflating thread with deflation, so the second call must succeed. 

However `+UseObjectMonitorTable` cannot do this so it must wait for the deflating thread to make progress. But as mentioned above, this would only happen if partial lock elimination is performed. E.g.
```java
Object o = new Object();
synchronized(o) {
  o.wait(1);
}
synchronized(o) {
  deoptimize();
}
```
got transformed to 
```java
Object o = new Object();
synchronized(o) {
  o.wait(1);
}
// synchronized(o) { Eliminated lock
  deoptimize();
// }
```

As far as I can tell, this does not happen. But I do not want to couple lock elimination decision with `LightweightSynchronizer::enter_for`. So I propose a retry loop instead of just the two calls.
After this change the only prerequisite for using `LightweightSynchronizer::enter_for` is that the object being synchronized can not have been reached by another

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
