# JDK-8370325: G1: Disallow GC for TLAB allocation

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8370325](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8370325) |
| **PR** | [#27932](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/27932) |
| **Author** | tschatzl |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-10-22 |
| **Merged** | 2025-10-23 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | gc/g1 |
| **代码变更** | +23 / -19 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | albertnetymk, walulyai (2 人) |

## 描述

Hi all,

  please review this change to the object allocation path to only allow direct allocation after failing TLAB allocation doing GCs.

Currently, when allocating an object, G1 (or actually any collector) first allocates from TLABs, then allocates from outside TLABs.

When G1 can't find space for a TLAB in the current region, it passes on control to `G1CollectedHeap::attempt_allocation[_slow]` that first tries to allocate that memory using a new region, or if that fails, do a GC. Potential allocation outside TLABs that would follow TLAB-allocation does the same.

G1's behavior to do a GC during failed TLAB allocation is problematic for the `UseGCOverheadLimit` functionality (https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8212084): if the GC overhead limit triggers in a TLAB allocation, it returns `null` for that TLAB allocation.
Control will be passed to outside-tlab allocation as described above. Since the garbage collections for TLAB allocations did free some memory (but because of exceeded gc overhead we returned null for the TLAB allocation), that allocation/collection for this outside-tlab allocation will succeed and return non-`null` to the mutator, effectively swallowing the information that GC overhead has been exceeded.

I split this out from the `UseGCOverheadLimit` change because I thought it is somewhat standalone, but I can merge it.

Testing: tier1-5, performance neutral after some tests

Hth,
  Thomas

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8370325](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8370325): G1: Disallow GC for TLAB allocation (**Enhancement** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Ivan Walulya](https://openjdk.org/census#iwalulya) (@walu


> **Backported to**: JDK 21u, JDK 25u

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
