# JDK-8319220: Pattern matching switch with a lot of cases is unduly slow

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8319220](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8319220) |
| **PR** | [#16489](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/16489) |
| **Author** | lahodaj |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-11-03 |
| **Merged** | 2023-11-24 |
| **审查天数** | 21 |
| **版本** | JDK 22 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | tools |
| **代码变更** | +267 / -120 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | asotona, forax, lahodaj, liach, vicente-romero-oracle (5 人) |

## 描述

Consider code like:
```
void test(Object o) {
    switch (o) {
        case X1 -> {}
        case X2 -> {}
...(about 100 cases)
``` 

javac will compile the switch into a switch whose selector is an indy invocation to `SwitchBootstraps.typeSwitch`, with static arguments being the types in the cases.

`SwitchBootstraps.typeSwitch` will then create a chain of `MethodHandle`s performing `instanceof` checks between the switch's selector and the given case type. The problem is that when the number of cases is high enough, (more than ~40-50), the chain gets too long, and the tests won't inline anymore. This then leads to a very bad performance, when compared to manually written if-instanceof-else-if-instanceof- chain.

The proposal herein is to use bytecode (written using the ClassFile API/library) instead of the `MethodHandle`s chain. The overall performance of this seems to be similar to the manually written if-instanceof-else-if-instanceof- chain.

Using the benchmark from the bug, and this patch, I am getting:
```
MyBenchmark.testIfElse100  thrpt    5  521826.326 ± 7510.042  ops/s
MyBenchmark.testSwitch100  thrpt    5  505440.170 ± 3757.178  ops/s
```

The most tricky part of this new way to generate the tests is handling of non-type case labels, and in particular cases with enum constant labels. The resolution of enum constants is deferred as much as possible, by using an indirection through the `ResolvedEnumLabels`.

Further improvements may be possible, esp. for some specific cases (like all cases having a type, and the type being a final class).

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8319220](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
