# JDK-8180571: Refactor sun/security/pkcs11 shell tests to plain java tests and fix failures

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8180571](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8180571) |
| **PR** | [#4092](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/4092) |
| **Author** | fguallini |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-05-18 |
| **Merged** | 2021-06-01 |
| **审查天数** | 14 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | security-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.net |
| **代码变更** | +256 / -881 (18 files) |
| **审查者** | XueleiFan, fguallini, sisahoo (3 人) |

## 描述

Refactor the following shell tests to Java:
- security/pkcs11/KeyStore/Basic.sh
- security/pkcs11/KeyStore/ClientAuth.sh
- security/pkcs11/KeyStore/SecretKeysBasic.sh
- security/pkcs11/Provider/ConfigQuotedString.sh
- security/pkcs11/Provider/Login.sh
- security/pkcs11/Config/ReadConfInUTF16Env.sh

Currently, most of the shell tests in the list may be ignored during execution time in most platforms since they are incorrectly filtered out by the OS name they are run on. For example, ClientAuth.sh is only run if the OS name is equal to ‘Linux’, but OS name may also include the architecture such as ‘Linux x86_64’. Those platform constraints are removed in this PR.

Additionally, further changes are introduced in the following test:

- ClientAuth: it was failing intermittently because the server side was binding to the wildcard address. The issue is fixed by binding to loopback address instead. Also, Thread.sleep is replaced with CountdownLatch to facilitate synchronization between client and server. Finally, a new ‘user1’ certificate was generated since the current one has expired.

- Basic: Remove redundant X509Certificate casting 

- SecretKeysBasic: it was already in the problem list since it reproduces the open bug JDK-8209398 and fails. Test is refactored to java and still reproduces the issue.

All the mentioned tests were run many times in multiple platforms to ensure stability

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8180571](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8180571): Refactor sun/security/pkcs11 shell tests to plain java tests and fix failures


### Reviewers
 * [Xue-Lei Andrew Fan](https://openjdk.java.net/census#xuelei) (@XueleiFan - **Reviewer**)


### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code><

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
