# JDK-8225790: Two NestedDialogs tests fail on Ubuntu

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8225790](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8225790) |
| **PR** | [#721](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/721) |
| **Author** | pankaj-bansal |
| **Created** | 2020-10-17 |
| **Merged** | 2020-10-20 |
| **审查天数** | 3 |
| **版本** | JDK 16 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | client-libs |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +178 / -707 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | mrserb (1 人) |

## 描述

Two NestedDialog tests are failing on Ubuntu 20.04 intermittently. I am able to reproduce the issue locally also sometime.

Tests are creating a frame and then create multiple dialogs. These tests are using classes VisibilityValidator and Waypoint (present in test/jdk/java/awt/regtesthelpers) for doing basic operations like waiting for a Frame/Dialog to become visible, doing a mouse click on a Frame/Window. Also, the test is not using Robot waitForIdle properly. so making the test less stable.

I have removed the lot of unnecessary code from the tests. Also, I have added proper AutoDelay on Robot and used waitForIdel properly. I have also removed the class VisibilityValidator and Waypoint. These classes were added with in test/jdk/java/awt/regtesthelpers when these tests were added. I don't see any use of these classes. No other test is using these classes at all and there is too much code in these classes.

I have run the multiple iterations of the test on mach5, it passes successfully. I have also run a full job to make confirm VisibilityValidator and Waypoint are not being used anywhere else.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Testing

|     | Linux x64 | Windows x64 | macOS x64 |
| --- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| Build | ✔️ (5/5 passed) | ✔️ (2/2 passed) | ✔️ (2/2 passed) |
| Test (tier1) | ✔️ (9/9 passed) | ✔️ (9/9 passed) | ✔️ (9/9 passed) |

### Issue
 * [JDK-8225790](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8225790): Two NestedDialogs tests fail on Ubuntu


### Reviewers
 * [Sergey Bylokhov](https://openjdk.java.net/census#serb) (@mrserb - **Reviewer**)


### Download
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk pull/721/head:pull/721`
`$ git checkout pull/721`


> **Backported to**: JDK 11u

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
