# JDK-8225763: Inflater and Deflater should implement AutoCloseable

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8225763](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8225763) |
| **PR** | [#19675](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/19675) |
| **Author** | jaikiran |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-06-12 |
| **Merged** | 2025-01-15 |
| **审查天数** | 217 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs |
| **代码变更** | +646 / -86 (7 files) |
| **审查者** | AlanBateman, LanceAndersen, RogerRiggs, jaikiran, liach, stuart-marks (6 人) |

## 描述

Can I please get a review of this enhancement which proposes to enhance `java.util.zip.Deflater/Inflater` classes to now implement `AutoCloseable`?

The actual work for this was done a few years back when we discussed the proposed approaches and then I raised a RFR. At that time I couldn't take this to completion. The current changes in this PR involve the implementation that was discussed at that time and also have implemented the review suggestions from that time. Here are those previous discussions and reviews:

https://mail.openjdk.org/pipermail/core-libs-dev/2019-June/061079.html
https://mail.openjdk.org/pipermail/core-libs-dev/2019-July/061177.html
https://mail.openjdk.org/pipermail/core-libs-dev/2019-July/061229.html

To summarize those discussions, we had concluded that:
- `Deflater` and `Inflater` will implement the `AutoCloseable` interface
-  In the `close()` implementation we will invoke the `end()` method (`end()` can be potentially overridden by subclasses).
- `close()` will be specified and implemented to be idempotent. Calling `close()` a second time or more will be a no-op.
- Calling `end()` and then `close()`, although uncommon, will also support idempotency and that `close()` call will be a no-op.
- However, calling `close()` and then `end()` will not guarantee idempotency and depending on the implementing subclass, the `end()` may throw an exception.

New tests have been included as part of these changes and they continue to pass along with existing tests in tier1, tier2 and tier3. When I had originally added these new tests, I hadn't used junit. I can convert them to junit if that's preferable.

I'll file a CSR shortly.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit messa

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
