# JDK-8225559: assertion error at TransTypes.visitApply

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8225559](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8225559) |
| **PR** | [#4647](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/4647) |
| **Author** | vicente-romero-oracle |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-07-01 |
| **Merged** | 2021-07-01 |
| **审查天数** | 0 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | arch/x86 |
| **代码变更** | +80 / -1 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | lahodaj, sadayapalam (2 人) |

## 描述

Please review this PR that is fixing a bug in javac. Depending on variations of the input the compiler fails with an assertion error or with the infamous NPE. So for code like:
```
src/pkg/Bar.java:

package pkg;
public abstract class Bar<T> {
    protected Bar() {}
    protected Bar(Class<?> c) {}
}

src/Test.java:

import pkg.Bar;
import java.util.function.Supplier;

class Test {
    public void foo() {
        supply(getSupplier(new Bar<>(){}));
    }

    static <U> Supplier<U> getSupplier(Bar<U> t) {
        return null;
    }

    static <U> void supply(Supplier<U> supplier) {}
}
```
see that the new class expression is defining an anonymous class which is invoking a protected constructor in the super class, all of this should just work, and it works if the user doesn't use diamond and instead the type parameters are provided explicitly. So what happens with the diamond?

The reason is deep into the speculative attribution machinery, oh boy.... So when we are dealing with diamond expression that define anonymous classes, the speculative attribution will at some point clone that expression but it will nuke its class definition basically in the expression: `new Bar<>(){}` the `{}` will be removed.

so we have:
`new Bar<>(){}  (Original)`
`new Bar<>()    (Copy1)`

but in order for the rest of the code to know that the original expression was actually defining an anonymous class, the compiler does a trick. Which can be seen at: `com.sun.tools.javac.tree.TreeMaker::SpeculativeNewClass` basically an anonymous class which overrides method `JCTree.JCNewClass::classDeclRemoved` is created. But the bug presented itself for cases when the speculative attribution needs to clone `Copy1` and now it doesn't have the `{}`, the class definition, for the cloning code to know that that expression was copied from `Original` which was defining an anonymous class. So we need to double check by making use of method JCTree.JCNewClass::classDeclRemov


> **Backported to**: JDK 11u, JDK 17u

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
