# JDK-8254231: Implementation of Foreign Linker API (Incubator)

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8254231](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8254231) |
| **PR** | [#634](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/634) |
| **Author** | mcimadamore |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2020-10-13 |
| **Merged** | 2020-11-23 |
| **审查天数** | 41 |
| **版本** | JDK 16 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs |
| **代码变更** | +67390 / -179 (212 files) |
| **审查者** | JornVernee, PaulSandoz, coleenp, dholmes-ora, magicus, mcimadamore, nick-arm (7 人) |

## 描述

This patch contains the changes associated with the first incubation round of the foreign linker access API incubation
(see JEP 389 [1]). This work is meant to sit on top of the foreign memory access support (see JEP 393 [2] and associated pull request [3]).

The main goal of this API is to provide a way to call native functions from Java code without the need of intermediate JNI glue code. In order to do this, native calls are modeled through the MethodHandle API. I suggest reading the writeup [4] I put together few weeks ago, which illustrates what the foreign linker support is, and how it should be used by clients.

Disclaimer: the pull request mechanism isn't great at managing *dependent* reviews. For this reasons, I'm attaching a webrev which contains only the differences between this PR and the memory access PR. I will be periodically uploading new webrevs, as new iterations come out, to try and make the life of reviewers as simple as possible.

A big thank to Jorn Vernee and Vladimir Ivanov - they are the main architects of all the hotspot changes you see here, and without their help, the foreign linker support wouldn't be what it is today. As usual, a big thank to Paul Sandoz, who provided many insights (often by trying the bits first hand).

Thanks
Maurizio

Webrev:
http://cr.openjdk.java.net/~mcimadamore/8254231_v1/webrev

Javadoc:

http://cr.openjdk.java.net/~mcimadamore/8254231_v1/javadoc/jdk/incubator/foreign/package-summary.html

Specdiff (relative to [3]):

http://cr.openjdk.java.net/~mcimadamore/8254231_v1/specdiff_delta/overview-summary.html

CSR:

https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8254232



### API Changes

The API changes are actually rather slim:

* `LibraryLookup`
  * This class allows clients to lookup symbols in native libraries; the interface is fairly simple; you can load a library by name, or absolute path, and then lookup symbols on that library.
* `FunctionDescriptor`
  * This is an abstraction

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
