# JDK-8345750: Shenandoah: Test TestJcmdHeapDump.java#aggressive intermittent assert(gc_cause() == GCCause::_no_gc) failed: Ov

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8345750](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8345750) |
| **PR** | [#23186](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/23186) |
| **Author** | earthling-amzn |
| **组织** | Amazon |
| **Created** | 2025-01-17 |
| **Merged** | 2025-01-21 |
| **审查天数** | 4 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | gc/shenandoah |
| **代码变更** | +22 / -8 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | kdnilsen, ysramakrishna (2 人) |

## 描述

This occurs when an attempt to produce a heap dump conflicts with a concurrent cycle. The heap dump vm operation attempts to run a cycle directly on the VM thread with no regard for the state of the concurrent collection. Although Shenandoah _is_ technically capable of running an entire _full_ GCs on the vm thread, I would rather not add another dependency on full GCs, nor would I like to cancel an in-progress concurrent GC. Instead, Shenandoah will follow the pattern established ZGC in which the calling thread waits for a concurrent cycle to complete before taking the heap dump.

## Testing

Shenandoh's jtreg test: `gc/shenandoah/TestJcmdHeapDump.java` simply takes a heap dump of itself. Before this change I observed a failure rate of approximately 1/6000 executions. The assertion is violated when the VM thread attempts to run a collection which is not coordinated by Shenandoah's control thread. This specific assertion happens because the default implementation of `collect_as_vm_thread` modifies the `_gc_cause` field in ways that Shenandoah does not expect. Without this assertion, one can only imagine the chaos that would ensue.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8345750](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8345750): Shenandoah: Test TestJcmdHeapDump.java#aggressive intermittent assert(gc_cause() == GCCause::_no_gc) failed: Over-writing cause (**Bug** - P3)


### Reviewers
 * [Kelvin Nilsen](https://openjdk.org/census#kdnilsen) (@kdnilsen - Author)
 * [Y. Srinivas Ramakrishna](https://openjdk.org/census#ysr) (@ysramakrishna - **Reviewer**)

### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fet


> **Backported to**: JDK 21u

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
