# JDK-8345506: jar --validate may lead to java.nio.file.FileAlreadyExistsException

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8345506](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8345506) |
| **PR** | [#22734](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/22734) |
| **Author** | jaikiran |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-12-13 |
| **Merged** | 2024-12-17 |
| **审查天数** | 4 |
| **版本** | JDK 24 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.io |
| **代码变更** | +169 / -2 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | AlanBateman, LanceAndersen, jaikiran (3 人) |

## 描述

Can I please get a review of this change which proposes to address the issue reported in https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8345506?

The `jar` tool has several operations which take `--file` as a parameter. The value for that option is a JAR file path. The `jar` operation is then run against that JAR file. The `--file` parameter is optional and when it isn't provided, the `jar` tool expects the JAR file content to be streamed through STDIN of the `jar` process.

The issue here is that the `--validate` option has a bug in the implementation where when the `--file` option is absent, it tries to read from the STDIN into a temporary file that the implementation just created. To do so it uses `Files.copy(...)` which throws an exception if the destination file exists (which it does in this case because that temporary destination file was created just a few lines above).

The fix in this commit address this issue by using an alternate way to transfer the JAR content into the temporary file. 

A new jtreg test has been introduced to reproduce the issue and verify the fix. I couldn't locate any other existing test which was exercising the code path which deals with `jar` operations against the STDIN of the `jar` process. So the new jtreg test has test for other operations and not just `--validate` operation.

The new test and existing tests in tier1, tier2 and tier3 continue to pass with this change.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Warning
&nbsp;⚠️ Found leading lowercase letter in issue title for `8345506: jar --validate may lead to java.nio.file.FileAlreadyExistsException`

### Issue
 * [JDK-8345506](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8345506): jar --va

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
