# JDK-8015831: Add lint check for calling overridable methods from a constructor

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8015831](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8015831) |
| **PR** | [#11874](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/11874) |
| **Author** | archiecobbs |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-01-06 |
| **Merged** | 2023-03-17 |
| **审查天数** | 70 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | tools |
| **代码变更** | +2463 / -18 (54 files) |
| **审查者** | ExE-Boss, archiecobbs, magicus, mcimadamore (4 人) |

## 描述

This PR adds a new lint warning category `this-escape`.

It also adds `@SuppressWarnings` annotations as needed to the JDK itself to allow the JDK to continue to compile with `-Xlint:all`.

A 'this' escape warning is generated for a constructor `A()` in a class `A` when the compiler detects that the following situation is _in theory possible:_
* Some subclass `B extends A` exists, and `B` is defined in a separate source file (i.e., compilation unit)
* Some constructor `B()` of `B` invokes `A()` as its superclass constructor
* During the execution of `A()`, some non-static method of `B.foo()` could get invoked, perhaps indirectly

In the above scenario, `B.foo()` would execute before `A()` has returned and before `B()` has performed any initialization. To the extent `B.foo()` accesses any fields of `B` - all of which are still uninitialized - it is likely to function incorrectly.

Note, when determining if a 'this' escape is possible, the compiler makes no assumptions about code outside of the current compilation unit. It doesn't look outside of the current source file to see what might actually happen when a method is invoked. It does follow method and constructors within the current compilation unit, and applies a simplified union-of-all-possible-branches data flow analysis to see where 'this' could end up.

From my review, virtually all of the warnings generated in the various JDK modules are valid warnings in the sense that a 'this' escape, as defined above, is really and truly possible. However, that doesn't imply that any bugs were found within the JDK - only that the possibility of a certain type of bug exists if certain superclass constructors are used by someone, somewhere, someday.

For several "popular" classes, this PR also adds `@implNote`'s to the offending constructors so that subclass implementors are made aware of the threat. For one example, `TreeMap(Map)` invokes `putAll()` and `put()`.

More details and a couple of motivating exam

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
