# JDK-8081833: Clean up JVMFlag getter/setter code

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8081833](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8081833) |
| **PR** | [#163](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/163) |
| **Author** | iklam |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2020-09-15 |
| **Merged** | 2020-09-22 |
| **审查天数** | 7 |
| **版本** | JDK 16 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +888 / -1607 (26 files) |
| **审查者** | coleenp, gerard-ziemski, iklam (3 人) |

## 描述

This is a follow to [JDK-8243208 Clean up JVMFlag implementation](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8243208).

I try to use templates and inheritance (and a bit of macros) to get rid of the large amount of duplicated code in the JVMFlag getters/setters.

Stefan Karlsson and I have tried this several times already, but I think the current attempt probably has the least amount of hacks and most functionality:

- Type safety is enforced up to the point of loading/storing `JVMFlag::_addr`, without any unchecked typecasts.
- Runtime type checking is implemented by the `JVM_FLAG_TYPE(t)` macro (see jvmFlagAccess.hpp), by passing along an integer (`JVMFlag::TYPE_int`, etc). This is more efficient than previous attempts that passed along a function pointer (see http://cr.openjdk.java.net/~stefank/8081833/webrev.04/)
- The old `JVMFlag::xxxAtPut` functions were undocumented. There are actually two groups that have different usage. I added documentation in jvmFlagAccess.hpp to explain this.
- I got rid of the `JVMFlagEx` class and moved the code into `JVMFlag`. This is possible with C++11 which allows forward declaration of `enum JVMFlagsEnum : int;`
- I changed `JVMFlag::_type` from a string into an enum. I am surprised this had lasted for over 20 years.
- I also changed `JVMFlag` from a struct into a class and made some fields private. I probably will do more cleanup in a separate RFE.

Please start with jvmFlagAccess.hpp, jvmFlagAccess.hpp and then globals_extension.hpp.

Probably not everyone is in love with the `JVM_FLAG_TYPE(t)` macro. I'll be happy to try out alternatives.
<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8081833](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8081833): Clean up JVMFlag getter/setter code


### Review

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
