# JDK-8295303: cleanup debug agent's confusing use of EI_GC_FINISH

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8295303](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8295303) |
| **PR** | [#10887](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/10887) |
| **Author** | plummercj |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-10-27 |
| **Merged** | 2022-11-08 |
| **审查天数** | 12 |
| **版本** | JDK 20 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-svc |
| **模块** | gc |
| **代码变更** | +44 / -29 (6 files) |
| **审查者** | alexmenkov, plummercj, sspitsyn (3 人) |

## 描述

This PR renamed EI_GC_FINISH to EI_CLASS_UNLOAD and does some other minor cleanups related to EI_GC_FINISH.

The debug agent deals with 3 types of events: JVMTI (per the spec), JDWP (per the spec), and an event indexing that the debug agent refers to as EI (Event Index) events. We have the following EI_GC_FINISH event. The indexing is into the array of jdwp event handlers which are created when the debugger sends an EventRequest command.

Note there is no EI_CLASS_UNLOAD event that maps to the JDWP CLASS_UNLOAD event, but instead we have:

`        EI_GC_FINISH = 8,`

And these are the mappings between EI_GC_FINISH and JDWP and JVMTI events

```
  case JVMTI_EVENT_GARBAGE_COLLECTION_FINISH:
      return EI_GC_FINISH;

  case JDWP_EVENT(CLASS_UNLOAD):
      return EI_GC_FINISH;

  index2jvmti[EI_GC_FINISH - EI_min] = JVMTI_EVENT_GARBAGE_COLLECTION_FINISH;

  index2jdwp[EI_GC_FINISH - EI_min] = JDWP_EVENT(CLASS_UNLOAD);
```

So there is this odd relationship between EI_GC_FINISH and the JDWP CLASS_UNLOAD event. Note that JVMTI does not have a CLASS_UNLOAD (except for unused support in the extension mechanism), and JDWP has no GC_FINISH event.

This relationship between EI_GC_FINISH and the JDWP CLASS_UNLOAD events stems from the fact that at one point JVMTI_EVENT_GARBAGE_COLLECTION_FINISH was used to trigger the synthesizing all of JDWP CLASS_UNLOAD events for classes that unloaded during the last GC. That is no longer the case, and instead each time a JVMTI OBJECT_FREE event is triggered for a Class instance, the JDWP CLASS_UNLOAD is generated.

Since JDWP CLASS_UNLOAD maps to EI_GC_FINISH, we have the following:

`    node = getHandlerChain(EI_GC_FINISH)->first;`

By looking at this line of code, you would never guess that this is how you fetch the event handler chain for JDWP CLASS_UNLOAD EventRequests, but it is.

To clean this up I renamed EI_GC_FINISH to EI_CLASS_UNLOAD. However, that still leaves the EI_GC_FINISH to JVMTI_EVENT_G

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
