# JDK-8295795: hsdis does not build with binutils 2.39+

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8295795](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8295795) |
| **PR** | [#15138](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/15138) |
| **Author** | robehn |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-08-03 |
| **Merged** | 2023-10-23 |
| **审查天数** | 81 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | build |
| **代码变更** | +83 / -36 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | djelinski, galderz, magicus, robehn (4 人) |

## 描述

Hi please consider.

This works with 2.30, 2.34, 2.38, 2.39, 2.40, 2.41 and current master head. (tested x64 and some RV)

There are 4 changes in binutils we work around.
- zstd compressed debug sections
- libsframe added
- init_disassemble_info() change
- libbfd.a is only present in .lib directory in newer binutils builds (older it is in both directories) (I think the issue is that we never do make install, thus have dependency on internal artifact placement)

Specific to RV, there is a bug in binutils causing the standard extensions not being added to disassembler if we pass in NULL.

This no way near perfect, but at least we can build hsdis with any contemporary binutils.

Todo better I think we need to build and install binutils to check the version and then use that version to figure out what options to use when re-building and re-installing binutils for hsdis.

I asked tool-chain people about our issues, they said, you can't do that. I.e. have source dependencies on many binutils versions.

As RV is new and have new instructions added to it frequently we really need to be able to build with bleeding-edge binutils. (capstone RV is not actively worked on, llvm have many more dependencies)

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8295795](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8295795): hsdis does not build with binutils 2.39+ (**Bug** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Magnus Ihse Bursie](https://openjdk.org/census#ihse) (@magicus - **Reviewer**)
 * [Daniel Jeliński](https://openjdk.org/census#djelinski) (@djelinski - **Reviewer**)


### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch https

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
