# JDK-8295867: TestVerifyGraphEdges.java fails with exit code -1073741571 when using AlwaysIncrementalInline

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8295867](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8295867) |
| **PR** | [#11065](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/11065) |
| **Author** | vnkozlov |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-11-09 |
| **Merged** | 2022-11-11 |
| **审查天数** | 2 |
| **版本** | JDK 20 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +60 / -48 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | chhagedorn, shipilev, vnkozlov (3 人) |

## 描述

When we use -Xcomp we compile `java.lang.invoke.LambdaForm$Kind::<clinit>` very long linear method for enum class: [LambdaForm.java#L250](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/blame/master/src/java.base/share/classes/java/lang/invoke/LambdaForm.java#L250)

In addition we inline all <init> class initializers for EA when run with -Xcomp: [bytecodeInfo.cpp#L410](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/blame/master/src/hotspot/share/opto/bytecodeInfo.cpp#L410)

Recent CDS change [JDK-8293979](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8293979) allows to inline a bit more deeply too.

Adding `-XX:+AlwaysIncrementalInline` worsened situation even more.

Running with `-XX:+LogCompilation` shows that we hit `NodeCountInliningCutoff (18000)` during `java.lang.invoke.LambdaForm$Kind::<clinit>` compilation.

In short, we have very long (>40000 live nodes) linear IR graph. `Node::verify_edges()` method process nodes depth-first starting from first input which is control edge. So it is not surprise that depth of this method recursion reached 6000.
With frame size of 10 words (320 bytes) we easy hit stack overflow (768K in 32-bits debug VM).

I fixed it by using local buffer `Node_List` instead of recursion in `Node::verify_edges()`.
The algorithm was changed to simplify code. It processes inputs in reverse order - last input processed first. And I noticed that maximum use of buffer is only about 1000 or less elements for this compilation (that is why I use live_nodes/16 as initial size of buffer).

Then I did additional experiment with keeping recursion but processing inputs in reverse order:

```
   // Recursive walk over all input edges
-  for( i = 0; i < len(); i++ ) {
-    n = in(i);
+  for( i = len(); i > 0; i++ ) {
+    n = in(i - 1);
     if( n != NULL )
       in(i)->verify_edges(visited);
   }
```

And it shows the same around 1000 stack depth!

I decided to keep my original fix because it should be faster (put only one value on list instead of putting all local

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
