# JDK-8295430: Use cmsDoTransformLineStride instead of cmsDoTransform in the loop

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8295430](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8295430) |
| **PR** | [#10754](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/10754) |
| **Author** | mrserb |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-10-19 |
| **Merged** | 2022-11-10 |
| **审查天数** | 22 |
| **版本** | JDK 20 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | client-libs |
| **模块** | client |
| **代码变更** | +344 / -38 (6 files) |
| **审查者** | mrserb, prrace (2 人) |

## 描述

This is the request to improve the change made by the
[8005530: [lcms] Improve performance of ColorConverOp for default destinations](http://hg.openjdk.java.net/jdk8/jdk8/jdk/rev/fd8810d50c99)

Right now the LCMSTransform mantain the special "imageAtOnce" flags and call cmsDoTransform function in the loop per line to support the gaps betwen the lines in the images . This code can be improved by using one call to cmsDoTransformLineStride. Some discussion about this method can be found [here](https://github.com/mm2/Little-CMS/issues/314), the full [specification](https://github.com/mm2/Little-CMS/blob/master/doc/LittleCMS2.14%20API.pdf):

```
void cmsDoTransformLineStride(cmsHTRANSFORM Transform,
                              const void* InputBuffer,
                              void* OutputBuffer,
                              cmsUInt32Number PixelsPerLine,
                              cmsUInt32Number LineCount,
                              cmsUInt32Number BytesPerLineIn,
                              cmsUInt32Number BytesPerLineOut,
                              cmsUInt32Number BytesPerPlaneIn,
                              cmsUInt32Number BytesPerPlaneOut);

This function translates bitmaps with complex organization. Each bitmap may contain
several lines, and every may have padding. The distance from one line to the next one is
BytesPerLine{In/Out}. In planar formats, each line may hold several planes, each plane may
have padding. Padding of lines and planes should be same across all bitmap. I.e. all lines
in same bitmap have to be padded in same way. This function may be more efficient that
repeated calls to cmsDoTransform(), especially when customized plug-ins are being used.

Parameters:

-  hTransform: Handle to a color transform object.
-  InputBuffer: A pointer to the input bitmap
-  OutputBuffer: A pointer to the output bitmap.
-  PixelsPerLine: The number of pixels for line, which is same on input and in output.
-  LineCount:

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
