# JDK-8283643: [AIX; testbug] MachCodeFramesInErrorFile test fails to find 'Native frames' text

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8283643](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8283643) |
| **PR** | [#8094](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/8094) |
| **Author** | backwaterred |
| **组织** | IBM |
| **Created** | 2022-04-04 |
| **Merged** | 2022-04-26 |
| **审查天数** | 22 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.io |
| **代码变更** | +12 / -10 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | TheRealMDoerr, backwaterred, dholmes-ora, dougxc, tstuefe (5 人) |

## 描述

I observed a failure of MachCodeFramesInErrorFile.java on AIX. The raised error complains that 'Native frames: ' is missing. To fix the failure, I made two changes to the test that allowed it to pass on AIX.

The first change made was to the test's `extractFrames` method. AIX overrides `os::platform_print_native_stack` with stack printing specific to AIX/Power. This code does not produce the 'Native frames: ' text that `vmError::print_native_stack` does, so the test was modified to expect the AIX output when run on AIX. [Edit: The changes made to `extractFrames` are now minimal. I made the change to `AixNativeCallstack::print_callstack_for_context` instead.]

A second change was made to the address passed to the `crashInNative1` method. AIX does not consider low-address memory to be protected as other platforms do. In fact, "the first 256 bytes are reserved for software use" according to the Power ISA. Accordingly, the read address for PPC was changed to -1 (0xFF..FF) to produce the expected failure result.

### Testing

Tier1 tests complete as expected on AIX/Power.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8283643](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8283643): [AIX, testbug] MachCodeFramesInErrorFile test fails to find 'Native frames' text


### Reviewers
 * [Doug Simon](https://openjdk.java.net/census#dnsimon) (@dougxc - Committer) ⚠️ Review applies to d0a05457a55866fa7df5cbca2501721bf50b3e9b
 * [David Holmes](https://openjdk.java.net/census#dholmes) (@dholmes-ora - **Reviewer**) ⚠️ Review applies to d0a05457a55866fa7df5cbca2501721bf50b3e9b


### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk pull/8094/head:pull/8094` \
`$ git checkout

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
