# JDK-8283349: Robustness improvements to java/util/prefs/AddNodeChangeListener.jar

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8283349](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8283349) |
| **PR** | [#7908](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/7908) |
| **Author** | bchristi-git |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-03-22 |
| **Merged** | 2022-03-25 |
| **审查天数** | 3 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | tools |
| **代码变更** | +53 / -40 (1 files) |
| **审查者** | LanceAndersen, bchristi-git, dfuch, naotoj (4 人) |

## 描述

Please review this change to the java/util/prefs/AddNodeChangeListener.jar test.

Although the test specifies "-Djava.util.prefs.userRoot=." to ensure a fresh Preferences on each test run, MacOS does not seem to honor this, and still stores prefs in Library/.

This test has long suffered intermittent failures. 8255031 added some debugging code; as of that change, the test fails fast as soon as an expected change event is not received. In particular, if the expected event is not received for adding the node, the test exits without removing the node. In this way, on Mac, the node can get "stuck" in the preferences of the machine. Future runs on the machine will already have the node, no node added change event will be generated (because the node was already there), the test will continue to fail without removing the node, etc. This matches observations on some CI machines.  

This change ensures that:
* the test node is not present before the test
* the test runs to completion, including removing the test node
* the test node is not left behind after the test

Thanks.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8283349](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8283349): Robustness improvements to java/util/prefs/AddNodeChangeListener.jar


### Reviewers
 * [Daniel Fuchs](https://openjdk.java.net/census#dfuchs) (@dfuch - **Reviewer**) ⚠️ Review applies to 71ab1f17e59d45a6899be1abe20a792813311a9f
 * [Naoto Sato](https://openjdk.java.net/census#naoto) (@naotoj - **Reviewer**) ⚠️ Review applies to 71ab1f17e59d45a6899be1abe20a792813311a9f
 * [Lance Andersen](https://openjdk.java.net/census#lancea) (@LanceAndersen - **Reviewer**)


### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
