# JDK-8283091: Support type conversion between different data sizes in SLP

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8283091](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8283091) |
| **PR** | [#7806](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/7806) |
| **Author** | fg1417 |
| **组织** | ARM |
| **Created** | 2022-03-14 |
| **Merged** | 2022-06-16 |
| **审查天数** | 94 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +1366 / -59 (23 files) |
| **审查者** | fg1417, sviswa7, vnkozlov (3 人) |

## 描述

After JDK-8275317, C2's SLP vectorizer has supported type conversion between the same data size. We can also support conversions between different data sizes like:
int <-> double
float <-> long
int <-> long
float <-> double

A typical test case:

int[] a;
double[] b;
for (int i = start; i < limit; i++) {
    b[i] = (double) a[i];
}

Our expected OptoAssembly code for one iteration is like below:

add R12, R2, R11, LShiftL #2
vector_load   V16,[R12, #16]
vectorcast_i2d  V16, V16  # convert I to D vector
add R11, R1, R11, LShiftL #3	# ptr
add R13, R11, #16	# ptr
vector_store [R13], V16

To enable the vectorization, the patch solves the following problems in the SLP.

There are three main operations in the case above, LoadI, ConvI2D and StoreD. Assuming that the vector length is 128 bits, how many scalar nodes should be packed together to a vector? If we decide it separately for each operation node, like what we did before the patch in SuperWord::combine_packs(), a 128-bit vector will support 4 LoadI or 2 ConvI2D or 2 StoreD nodes. However, if we put these packed nodes in a vector node sequence, like loading 4 elements to a vector, then typecasting 2 elements and lastly storing these 2 elements, they become invalid. As a result, we should look through the whole def-use chain
and then pick up the minimum of these element sizes, like function SuperWord::max_vector_size_in_ud_chain() do in the superword.cpp. In this case, we pack 2 LoadI, 2 ConvI2D and 2 StoreD nodes, and then generate valid vector node sequence, like loading 2 elements, converting the 2 elements to another type and storing the 2 elements with new type.

After this, LoadI nodes don't make full use of the whole vector and only occupy part of it. So we adapt the code in SuperWord::get_vw_bytes_special() to the situation.

In SLP, we calculate a kind of alignment as position trace for each scalar node in the whole vector. In this case, the alignments for 2 LoadI nodes are 0, 4 w

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
