# JDK-8302189: Mark assertion failures noreturn

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8302189](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8302189) |
| **PR** | [#12845](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/12845) |
| **Author** | kimbarrett |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-03-03 |
| **Merged** | 2023-03-08 |
| **审查天数** | 5 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | arch/x86 |
| **代码变更** | +146 / -40 (8 files) |
| **审查者** | TheShermanTanker, coleenp, dholmes-ora, kimbarrett (4 人) |

## 描述

Also 8302799: Refactor Debugging variable usage for noreturn crash reporting
/issue add JDK-8302799 

Please review this change to make the functions used to report assertion
failures and the like be noreturn, and mark them as such for the compiler
using the [[noreturn]] attribute.

These functions were returning if the `Debugging` variable was true, and must
not do so anymore.

We introduce a new mechanism for temporarily disabling assertions while
calling certain "debugging" commands while stopped in a debugger:
DebuggingContext.  This replaces the `Debugging` variable.

To disable assertions when in a debugging context the various checking macros
now also check for the context.  This ends up being a bit complicated and
messy.  See discussion in debug.hpp.

Only error reporting under the control of ASSERT is affected by the debugging
context.  Others seem much less likely to be survivable.  Explicit debugging
checks can be added where needed to support the debugging commands.  A few
are included with this change.  There might be more needed; I haven't
exhaustively tested the debugging commands.

In some respects it would be better to not have assertions be automatically
disabled by DebuggingContext, and instead use explicit context checks where
needed.  The problem is that "where needed" is a difficult to determine and
maintain set.

Testing:
mach5 tier1-7

Manually tested some of the debugging commands.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issues
 * [JDK-8302189](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8302189): Mark assertion failures noreturn
 * [JDK-8302799](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8302799): Refactor Debugging variable

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
