# JDK-8369902: C2 SuperWord: wrong result because filterin NaN instead of zero in MemPointerParser::canonicalize_raw_summands

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8369902](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8369902) |
| **PR** | [#27848](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/27848) |
| **Author** | eme64 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-10-16 |
| **Merged** | 2025-10-21 |
| **审查天数** | 5 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +252 / -2 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | eme64, mhaessig, vnkozlov (3 人) |

## 描述

**TLDR** `is_NaN` -> `is_zero`, just like the code comment says.

Thanks to @mhaessig for debugging the ARM32 bug below. He found the buggy line of code.

----------------------------------------

**Details**

It seems there is a little "typo" (logic error) in `MemPointerParser::canonicalize_raw_summands` that slipped through the cracks in https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/24278. The JavaFuzzer now found an example, and independently the issue was also reported on ARM32 [JDK-8368578](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8368578).

Filtering out `NaN` instead of `zero` for the `scaleL` has two manifestations:
- If `scaleL` is zero, but does not get filtered out even though it should be: we hit the assert in `MemPointerSummand` constructor, `assert(!_scale.is_zero(), "non-zero scale");`.
  - See [JDK-8368578](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8368578), though those tests seem to only fail on ARM32, and nowhere else.
  - I was able to construct a `MemorySegment` regression test, see `TestMemorySegmentFilterSummands.test1`. I suspect that the ARM32 failures happened on an array, as it failed in places like `BigInteger::implMultiplyToLen`. But now I was able to reproduce it with native memory, to get a pointer expression that has the same cancellation issue.
- If `scaleL` is `NaN`, and gets filtered even though it should not be: We get a non-trivial MemPointer that is missing a summand. So we will succeed in optimizing, but with wrong assumptions. We generate a runtime aliasing check that is incorrect, leading to wrong results.
  - This was reported by the fuzzer, see attached `TestDoNotFilterNaNSummands`.
  - I was also able to create a simpler example with `MemorySegments`, see attached `TestMemorySegmentFilterSummands.test2`.

**Why did this slip through the cracks?**

In https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/24278 I added pretty extensive testing, even fuzzer style tests, see `TestAliasingFuzzer.java`. But I think all of those tests exercise `sca

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
