# JDK-8369742: Link AOT-linked classes at JVM bootstrap

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8369742](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8369742) |
| **PR** | [#27783](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/27783) |
| **Author** | iklam |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-10-14 |
| **Merged** | 2025-10-17 |
| **审查天数** | 3 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | arch/x86 |
| **代码变更** | +159 / -63 (13 files) |
| **审查者** | ashu-mehra, iklam, vnkozlov (3 人) |

## 描述

**PROBLEM**

If we have an AOT-initialized class like this in java.base

```
@AOTSafeClassInitializer
class Foo {
    static Bar b = new Bar(); // AOT-cached
    static void doit() {
        b.toString(); /// invokevirtual Bar::toString()Ljava/lang/String;
    }
}
```

If `Foo.doit()` is called before `AOTLinkedClassBulkLoader::link_or_init_javabase_classe()`, it's possible for the `Bar` class to be not yet linked. The `invokevirtual` bytecode will crash because the vtable of the object `b` is not yet initialized.

**FIX**

Before we execute the first Java bytecode, unconditionally link all AOT-linked classes. This will ensure that the `Bar` class will have an initialized vtable for the above example.

**NOTES**

- The scenario in the  above example does not affect JDK 24, 25 or the current JDK mainline (26). We are lucky that in all the bytecode execution up to `AOTLinkedClassBulkLoader::link_or_init_javabase_classe()`, whenever we do a vtable/itable dispatch on an AOT-cached heap object, we happen to have already linked its class (either by explicit calls from the JVM, or as side effect of invokestatic/getstatic/putstatic/new). However, this is a potential problem that should be fixed. I have run into this problem when implementing [JDK-8368199](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8368199), which changes the bytecodes that are executed in early VM bootstrap.
- I had to enable `CDSConfig::is_preserving_verification_constraints()` to for the static CDS archive. The reason is to avoid class loading. Please see the new comments in `AOTLinkedClassBulkLoader::link_classes_in_table()`.
- The change in `AdapterHandlerLibrary::create_native_wrapper` is for supporting JVMTI. The offending methods are `jdk.internal.vm.Continuation::enterSpecial` and `jdk.internal.vm.Continuation::doYield`. These are "continuation native intrinsic" methods that are usually linked much later after the ServiceThread have been started.

<!-- Anything below this marker wil

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
