# JDK-8237388: serviceability/dcmd/framework/VMVersionTest.java fails with connection refused error.

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8237388](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8237388) |
| **PR** | [#4235](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/4235) |
| **Author** | alexmenkov |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-05-27 |
| **Merged** | 2021-06-08 |
| **审查天数** | 12 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | core-svc |
| **模块** | runtime/serviceability |
| **代码变更** | +92 / -69 (5 files) |
| **审查者** | alexmenkov, plummercj, sspitsyn (3 人) |

## 描述

nsk test framework for testing jdi/jdwp assumes that the test launch debuggee first and then creates IOPipe to communicate with debuggee (debugger listens, debugee connects to the IOPipe socket).
This makes possible failure when debuggee tries to connect before debugger starts listening.
The fix changes logic of the tests to start listening on IOPipe socket before launch debuggee.
Other tests which use IOPipe/SocketIOPipe and have the same issue (there are a lot of them) will be fixes as separate issues.

Couple details about the fix:
- debugee.getPipeServerSocket() just calls binder.getPipeServerSocket(), returned ServerSocket can be changed only by DebugeeBinder.prepareForPipeConnection which is called by some tests;
- connectingProcess logic is broken. The only place it's used is BasicSocketConnection.checkConnectingProcess, which is called from SocketConnection.continueAttach. But continueAttach is called from debuggee code (listening == false) while connectingProcess is set only from debugger code (listening == true). So it didn't work and I dropped it.

Testing: all tests which use IOPipe/SocketIOPipe classes:
- test/hotspot/jtreg/serviceability/dcmd/framework
- test/hotspot/jtreg/vmTestbase/nsk/jdi
- test/hotspot/jtreg/vmTestbase/nsk/jdwp

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8237388](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8237388): serviceability/dcmd/framework/VMVersionTest.java fails with connection refused error.


### Reviewers
 * [Chris Plummer](https://openjdk.java.net/census#cjplummer) (@plummercj - **Reviewer**)
 * [Serguei Spitsyn](https://openjdk.java.net/census#sspitsyn) (@sspitsyn - **Reviewer**)


### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fet

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
