# JDK-8237363: Remove automatic is in heap verification in OopIterateClosure

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8237363](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8237363) |
| **PR** | [#797](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/797) |
| **Author** | stefank |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2020-10-22 |
| **Merged** | 2020-10-26 |
| **审查天数** | 4 |
| **版本** | JDK 16 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | gc |
| **代码变更** | +34 / -92 (17 files) |
| **审查者** | fisk, pliden, shipilev, stefank (4 人) |

## 描述

There's verification code in the "oop iterate" framework that asserts that a pointer is "is in the heap". This works for most GCs, but ZGC *can* eagerly decommit the old relocation set pages, which means that pointers to the old / from copy of the object could point to memory that is currently not a part of the current heap.

To combat this in the past I've added a way for oop iterate closures to turn off this verification. However, every single time we add a new closure we have to consider if we can allow this verification check or if we have to remove it. Personally, I think this is a false abstraction and also widens the oop iterate closure interface. I previously proposed a patch that moved the verification code down into the oop iterate closures. It wasn't a huge patch, but I got push-back that it was convenient for other GCs to get this automatic verification, and the review stalled.

In this new patch I propose a different way to retain the verification. The realization is that most oop iterate closures have to deal with both compressed and non-compressed oops, so the code typically looks like this:

```
template <class T>
inline void G1ScanCardClosure::do_oop_work(T* p) {
  T o = RawAccess<>::oop_load(p);
  if (CompressedOops::is_null(o)) {
    return;
  }
  oop obj = CompressedOops::decode_not_null(o);
```

Therefore the suggest new place to put the is_in verification is in the CompressedOops::decode*. This injects the assert into almost all non-ZGC closures, and also to places that don't use the oop iterate closure framework. I think this is a neat workaround, and hope this patch is accepted this time.

I've tested this patch a few weeks ago, but will rerun the relevant tiers.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Testin

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
