# JDK-8363837: Make StubRoutines::crc_table_adr() into platform-specific method

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8363837](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8363837) |
| **PR** | [#26434](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/26434) |
| **Author** | vnkozlov |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-07-22 |
| **Merged** | 2025-07-25 |
| **审查天数** | 3 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | build |
| **代码变更** | +67 / -25 (24 files) |
| **审查者** | adinn, mur47x111, vnkozlov (3 人) |

## 描述

`StubRoutines::_crc_table_adr` and `_crc32c_table_addr` are used by initial stubs. In Leyden these addresses should be recorded in `AOTCodeAddressTable` to be used by AOTed stubs. But recording in `AOTCodeAddressTable` is done in `AOTCodeCache::init2()` which is called before initial stubs are generated and `_crc*_table_addr` are set.

We need to move `_crc_table_addr` and `_crc32c_table_addr` initialization to `preuniverse` blob to be available in `AOTCodeCache::init2()`.

I also renamed `_crc_table_adr` to `_crc_table_addr` to match other names.

During testing I found that `-Xlog:stubs` affects empty blobs generation.  There was typo there: `return nullptr;` was in wrong place.

I have to specify sizes of `preuniverse` blobs so they are called after I fixed typo.  `32` bytes is cache line size on most CPUs. Note, there will be no assembler code generation for this case: `_crc*_table_addr` are initialized by address of C tables. 

I did not move `_crc*_table_addr` declaration in `stubDeclarations.hpp` from `init` to `preuniverse` blob. I tried but there is issue: they require to specify stub name and I can move `updateBytesCRC32` stub declaration.  I tries add fake stub but it did not work.  I would prefer if I could use `nullptr` instead of stub in such case. But it will complicate other code. I think it is fine `do_entry()` macro only creates field and accessor function.

Tested: tier1-4,tier10-rt,xcomp,stress

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8363837](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8363837): Make StubRoutines::crc_table_adr() into platform-specific method (**Bug** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Andrew Dinn](https://openjdk.org/cen

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
