# JDK-8337221: CompileFramework: test library to conveniently compile java and jasm sources for fuzzing

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8337221](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8337221) |
| **PR** | [#20184](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/20184) |
| **Author** | eme64 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-07-15 |
| **Merged** | 2024-10-16 |
| **审查天数** | 93 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +1604 / -0 (18 files) |
| **审查者** | eme64, lepestock (2 人) |

## 描述

**Motivation**

I want to write small dedicated fuzzers:
- Generate `java` and `jasm` source code: just some `String`.
- Quickly compile it (with this framework).
- Execute the compiled code.

The primary users of the CompileFramework are Compiler-Engineers. Imagine you are working on some optimization. You already have a list of **hand-written tests**, but you are worried that this does not give you good coverage. You also do not trust that an existing Fuzzer will catch your bugs (at least not fast enough). Hence, you want to **script-generate** a large list of tests. But where do you put this script? It would be nice if it was also checked in on git, so that others can modify and maintain the test easily. But with such a script, you can only generate a **static test**. In some cases that is good enough, but sometimes the list of all possible tests your script would generate is very very large. Too large. So you need to randomly sample some of the tests. At this point, it would be nice to generate different tests with every run: a "mini-fuzzer" or a **fuzzer dedicated to a compiler feature**.

**The CompileFramework**

Java sources are compiled with `javac`, jasm sources with `asmtools` that are delivered with `jtreg`.
An important factor: Integration with the IR-Framwrork (`TestFramework`): we want to be able to generate IR-rules for our tests.

I implemented a first, simple version of the framework. I added some tests and examples.

**Example**

```
CompileFramework comp = new CompileFramework();
comp.add(SourceCode.newJavaSourceCode("XYZ", "<source-code-here>"));
comp.compile();
comp.invoke("XYZ", "test", new Object[] {5}); // XYZ.test(5);
```

https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/blob/e869cce8092ee995cf2f3ad1ab2bca69c5e256ab/test/hotspot/jtreg/testlibrary_tests/compile_framework/examples/SimpleJavaExample.java#L42-L74

**Below some use cases: tests that would have been better with the CompileFramework**

**Use case: test/hotspot/jtreg/com


> **Backported to**: JDK 17u, JDK 21u

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
