# JDK-8337853: Remove SunLayoutEngineKey and SunLayoutEngineFactory and its cache.

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8337853](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8337853) |
| **PR** | [#29680](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/29680) |
| **Author** | prrace |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2026-02-11 |
| **Merged** | 2026-02-23 |
| **审查天数** | 12 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | client-libs |
| **模块** | client |
| **代码变更** | +24 / -216 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | DamonGuy, azvegint (2 人) |

## 描述

For a long time I've looked at the unnecessary complexity around the code that manages "LayoutEngines' for OpenType font layout.

The code was written a very long time ago when it was supposed that you might have a layout engine that could do Arabic. An unrelated one for Devanagari. An unrelated one for Thai. An unrelated one that knew how to handle some special font format ...

It uses keys to look up these 'instances' thereby creating caches that prevent GC.
It was the cause of this bug report that font instances created from streams that were being used by layout aren't being deleted.
There is also the implication there's some 'state' to the engines, when in fact the methods that
invoke the native code are static methods and no state is relevant. Instances of the native engine are created and discarded as we need them in each layout call. There's minimal overhead to this, and whatever there is, we've been living with for a long time, and if we *were* re-using them we'd have overhead to ensure there was only one thread using it .. which we don't have and don't want.

So this PR deletes various interfaces and classes with LayoutEngine in the name, keeping only SunLayoutEngine, and making all its methods static - most already were.
And fixes one very definite problem with the GCing of created fonts.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Warning
&nbsp;⚠️ Found trailing period in issue title for `8337853: Remove SunLayoutEngineKey and SunLayoutEngineFactory and its cache.`

### Issue
 * [JDK-8337853](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8337853): Remove SunLayoutEngineKey and SunLayoutEngineFactory and its cache. (**Bug** - P3)


### Reviewers
 * [Alexander

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
