# JDK-8265116: ZGC: Steal local stacks instead of flushing them

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8265116](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8265116) |
| **PR** | [#3455](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/3455) |
| **Author** | pliden |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-04-13 |
| **Merged** | 2021-04-26 |
| **审查天数** | 13 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | gc/zgc |
| **代码变更** | +39 / -16 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | albertnetymk, kstefanj (2 人) |

## 描述

As part of addressing the issue of excessive mark stack usage, it was observed that sometimes mark stack utilization can be very low. For example, casparcwang@tencent.com reported that when running Apache Zookeeper, mark stack utilization was ~10%.

The problem is that GC workers are a bit too eager to flush mark stacks. Currently, whenever a GC worker has drained its home stripe it will always flush all remaining mark stacks. This causes non-full mark stacks to be flushed. This in turn means that the GC worker who receives that non-full stack (small amount of work) tends to also produce non-full stacks (small amount of work) for other GC workers. This can lead to a vicious cycle, which results in excessive mark stack memory usage.

The solution proposed here is to not let GC workers flush non-full stacks. After draining the home stripe, a GC worker will instead try to steal any non-full local stack belonging to a different stripe, and if no such stacks exist it will (as it does today) try to steal a global stack belonging to a different stripe.

(Note: This PR only addresses one part of the mark stack usage problem. Other improvements, such as the discussed "mark before push"-patch will be a separate PR).

Testing:
 * Tier1-7.
 * SPECjbb2015, score and mark times unaffected.
 * casparcwang@tencent.com reports that this patch (in combination with the "mark before push"-patch) solves the problem for Apache Zookeeper.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8265116](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8265116): ZGC: Steal local stacks instead of flushing them


### Reviewers
 * [Albert Mingkun Yang](https://openjdk.java.net/census#ayang) (@albertnetymk - Committer)
 * [Stefan Johansson](https://openjdk.java.net/census#sjoh

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
