# JDK-8265753: Remove manual JavaThread transitions to blocked

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8265753](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8265753) |
| **PR** | [#3875](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/3875) |
| **Author** | robehn |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-05-05 |
| **Merged** | 2021-05-28 |
| **审查天数** | 23 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | runtime/threading |
| **代码变更** | +190 / -221 (8 files) |
| **审查者** | dholmes-ora, reinrich, robehn (3 人) |

## 描述

Please consider this change which removes the manual transitions to blocked.
This adds a preprocess template/functor which is executed in the destructor of 'ThreadBlockInVM' if we are going to do any processing.
This gives us a way to backout of the object/raw monitor before suspend or other processing, such as a safepoint.

The object monitor code could be straight forward changed to use this instead of manual transitions.

Raw monitors on the other hand are a bit more complicated due to 'implicit' rules (consequences of the specs).
Added a comment in hpp trying to explain it; we cannot simply transition with a raw monitor held.
This caused the change in the destructor ~ThreadInVMfromNative() (this specific change have also been tested in unrelated exploration of transition), now this RAII does the same as we do when going to native from Java, just setting the state.
Since we are going from an unsafe state, in VM, to a safe state, in native, we do not need to check the poll.
That made it possible to careful use ThreadInVMfromNative in raw monitors.

I also remove the early CAS in raw_enter.
We lock a lock to do a CAS, in the uncontended case means CAS on lock then CAS raw monitor.
Now we instead do a transitions, in the uncontended case means fence, CAS raw monitor, fence.
(multiple fence (CAS is also a fence) very close to each other have little additional performance impact on contemporary hardware)

Passes t1-t7 and manual stressing relevant test groups.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8265753](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8265753): Remove manual JavaThread transitions to blocked


### Reviewers
 * [Daniel D. Daugherty](https://openjdk.java.net/census#dcubed) (@dcubed-ojdk - **Reviewer**)
 * [Ric

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
