# JDK-8265934: Cleanup _suspend_flags and _special_runtime_exit_condition

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8265934](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8265934) |
| **PR** | [#3919](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/3919) |
| **Author** | pchilano |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-05-07 |
| **Merged** | 2021-05-13 |
| **审查天数** | 6 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +129 / -138 (7 files) |
| **审查者** | dholmes-ora, pchilano, robehn (3 人) |

## 描述

Hi,

Please review the following patch which contains the following cleanups:

- Move _suspend_flags from Thread class to JavaThread

- Rename _special_runtime_exit_condition to _async_exception_condition. The name has been mixed up with the methods has_special_runtime_exit_condition() and handle_special_runtime_exit_condition() which check both async exception conditions and _suspend_flags. Also rename related methods:  clear_special_runtime_exit_condition() -> clear_async_exception_condition(), has_async_condition() -> has_async_exception_condition(). I also added set_async_exception_condition() just for completeness which is now called by set_pending_unsafe_access_error() and set_pending_async_exception().

- The _has_async_exception enum value in SuspendFlags creates a coupling between _suspend_flags and asynchronous exceptions. This allows us in the transition from native to Java wrappers to do a single load and comparison against the _suspend_flags field instead of having to do one for _suspend_flags and one for asynchronous exceptions. Since this is just an optimization I removed methods has_async_exception(), set_has_async_exception() and clear_has_async_exception() associated with _suspend_flags since they create confusion as to who actually manages asynchronous exceptions. Methods associated with _async_exception_condition should be used instead. I added a comment in set_pending_async_exception() as to why we use _suspend_flags. 

- Remove boolean parameter check_unsafe_error from check_and_handle_async_exceptions(). When we check for async exceptions we always process any async condition except in the transition from native->Java where we skip unsafe access error ones. I moved the boolean parameter to has_async_exception_condition() instead and fixed check_special_condition_for_native_trans(). Method check_and_handle_async_exceptions() could use some further cleanup but I'll do that in another RFR.

Tested in mach5 tiers 1-6.

Thanks,
Patri

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
