# JDK-8262465: Very long compilation times and high memory consumption in C2 debug builds

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8262465](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8262465) |
| **PR** | [#3119](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/3119) |
| **Author** | neliasso |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-03-22 |
| **Merged** | 2021-03-23 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +12 / -10 (1 files) |
| **审查者** | TobiHartmann, vnkozlov (2 人) |

## 描述

I tracked down the cause of the compilation times to a assert guarded block in reg_split.cpp.

The test method that causes this behaviour is a main method with an outer iteration loop, and inner loops that iterates over a value array. The inner loops is filled with about 40 calls to a verify() method but with different tests of rotate. Every call to verify is also accompanied by a string concatenation that expands with indy-string-concat.

The result IR has a huge number of live ranges and the index set are very large.

In reg_split there is some code that validate that any liveout isn't compressible to defidx. For all spills - all liveouts a searched for the def. But the lrgs are not compressed yet - so they will scan a chain of renames. To add insult to injury the indexset is huge. Fortunately this is only in debug builds.

I have posted some compile time numbers and IndexSet statistics in the bug.

I propose to guard the assert code with VerifyRegisterAllocation. This isn't optimal since we don't test with that flag regularly, but I think it might be an ok trade off. Bugs in split would still be caught - but later, and then VerifyRegisterAllocation can be turned on.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8262465](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8262465): Very long compilation times and high memory consumption in C2 debug builds


### Reviewers
 * [Vladimir Kozlov](https://openjdk.java.net/census#kvn) (@vnkozlov - **Reviewer**) ⚠️ Review applies to 00c8928e7ffef0041ff356d70dcc745fe6c98679
 * [Tobias Hartmann](https://openjdk.java.net/census#thartmann) (@TobiHartmann - **Reviewer**)


### Download
To checkout this PR locally:
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk pull/3119/head:pull/3119`
`$ git checkout pul

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
