# JDK-8262027: Improve how HttpConnection detects a closed channel when taking/returning a connection to the pool

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8262027](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8262027) |
| **PR** | [#2649](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/2649) |
| **Author** | dfuch |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-02-19 |
| **Merged** | 2021-02-24 |
| **审查天数** | 5 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.net |
| **代码变更** | +601 / -41 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | ChrisHegarty, Michael-Mc-Mahon, dfuch (3 人) |

## 描述

Hi,

Please find here a fix for:
8262027: Improve how HttpConnection detects a closed channel when taking/returning a connection to the pool

While writing a new test to verify that it was possible to handle proxy *and* server authentication manually when both proxy and server required authentication, I stumbled on a race condition where the next request after receiving 407 would manage to retrieve the connection from the pool just before the connection close was receive from the proxy. Since the test was using POST, and POST are not retried by default, this caused the test to fail randomly and intermittently.

This fix proposes to add a checkOpen() method to HttpConnection, which we can call just after retrieving a connection from the pool. This method will attempt to read 1 byte from the channel. Because the connection was in the pool, it should not have received anything, and because the channel is non-blocking, the `read` should always return 0, unless the channel has been closed. This forces an early check on the channel state, rather then waiting for the selector to wake up the Selector Manager Thread - which might happen too late.

This is not a 100% silver bullet, but it drastically reduced the number of failures I was observing (to 0 after several 100 loops of testing on all machines). The only other failures I observed was on windows, where apparently closing the socket on the server side can cause a reset, even when SO_LINGER and TCP_NODELAY are specified. I solved that by adding a small delay between socket.shutdownOutput() and socket.close() in the test proxy - when running on windows.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8262027](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8262027): Improve how HttpConnection dete

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
