# JDK-8262981: Create implementation for NSAccessibilitySlider protocol

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8262981](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8262981) |
| **PR** | [#2874](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/2874) |
| **Author** | pankaj-bansal |
| **Created** | 2021-03-08 |
| **Merged** | 2021-04-15 |
| **审查天数** | 38 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | client-libs |
| **模块** | client |
| **代码变更** | +164 / -2 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | azuev-java, pankaj-bansal (2 人) |

## 描述

Create implementation of NSAccessibilitySlider protocol https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nsaccessibilityslider

The implementation has the function performIncrement and performDecrement to increase/decrease the value of slider using the VoiceOver. To implement this functionality, I could think of  following two ways. I have chosen the first one here though it is more intrusive.
1. Make the AccessibleJSlider class implement the AccessibleAction interface. This makes AccessibleJSlider consistent with the AccessibleJSpinner class. It is more clear and the logic to increase/decrease Slider value can be changed easily. But this changes AccessibleJSlider class and will need a CSR.
2. Get the current Accessible Value from the component and  just increment/decrement it in SliderAccessibility.m  class itself and then set the current accessible value fro there only. This will not need any changes in AccessibleJSlider class, but this does not look correct way and I have not used this.

The changes can be easily tested by using a JSlider example, like the following example. VO should announce the correct the slider values. To change the slider values, use ctrl+opt+shift+down key to start interacting with the slider, then use ctrl+opt+up/down arrow keys to increment/decrement slider values.

      import javax.swing.JFrame;
      import javax.swing.JSlider;
      
      public class JSliderDemo{
          public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {
              JFrame jframe = new JFrame("JSlider Demo");
              jframe.setDefaultCloseOperation(JFrame.EXIT_ON_CLOSE);
              jframe.add(new JSlider());
      
              jframe.setLocationRelativeTo(null);
              jframe.pack();
              jframe.setVisible(true);
          }
      }

<!--
Replace this text with a description of your pull request (also remove the surrounding HTML comment markers).
If in doubt, feel free to delete everything in this edit

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
