# JDK-8262912: ciReplay: replay does not simulate unresolved classes

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8262912](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8262912) |
| **PR** | [#5926](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/5926) |
| **Author** | chhagedorn |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-10-13 |
| **Merged** | 2021-10-15 |
| **审查天数** | 2 |
| **版本** | JDK 18 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | arch/x86 |
| **代码变更** | +241 / -15 (8 files) |
| **审查者** | dean-long, vnkozlov (2 人) |

## 描述

When trying to replay compile, the JVM will always resolve some classes before actually doing the replay compilation. When finally replay compiling the method, the state of `ciInstanceKlasses` which are resolved/unresolved could be different compared to the state at which the replay file was dumped. This will even be a bigger problem when tackling [JDK-8254110](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8254110).

This change intends to fix this by only treating a `ciInstanceKlass` as *not* unresolved if there is a corresponding entry for it in the replay file. This is achieved by a whitelist (`ciInstanceKlassRecord`). All accesses to get a pointer to a `ciInstanceKlass` are eventually routed through `ciEnv::get_metadata()`. This method is hooked to compare it against the replay compilation whitelist. If the corresponding `Klass` is not on the list, an unresolved `ciInstanceKlass` is returned instead.

Finding a way to reliably test this feature was difficult. I therefore came up with a test which first creates a replay file with `CICrashAt` and then removes the `ciInstanceKlass` entry for class `Foo` to simulate that `Foo` was unresolved at replay dump time. This will result in a different C2 IR which is verified by checking the `PrintIdeal` output (see comments in test).

Thanks,
Christian

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8262912](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8262912): ciReplay: replay does not simulate unresolved classes


### Reviewers
 * [Vladimir Kozlov](https://openjdk.java.net/census#kvn) (@vnkozlov - **Reviewer**)
 * [Dean Long](https://openjdk.java.net/census#dlong) (@dean-long - **Reviewer**)


### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch ht

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
