# JDK-8308144: Uncontrolled memory consumption in SSLFlowDelegate.Reader

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8308144](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8308144) |
| **PR** | [#16704](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/16704) |
| **Author** | jaikiran |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-11-17 |
| **Merged** | 2023-11-21 |
| **审查天数** | 4 |
| **版本** | JDK 22 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs |
| **代码变更** | +662 / -20 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | dfuch, djelinski, jaikiran (3 人) |

## 描述

Can I please get a review for this change which proposes to fix an issue in the JDK's HttpClient implementation, noted in https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8308144?

The HttpClient implementation internally uses `java.util.concurrent.Flow.Subscriber` API in the `jdk.internal.net.http.common.SSLFlowDelegate` class. The `SSLFlowDelegate` class at a high level is responsible for taking in SSL network data, decrypting it and passing it along as application data. It's also responsible for accepting application data, encrypting it and passing it along as SSL network data. To do so, it uses the `Flow.Subscriber` API which provide a way to control the pace of the flow of the data.

The issue at hand is when the `SSLFlowDelegate` receives incoming SSL network data and it tries to decrypt it using `javax.net.ssl.SSLEngine`, the `unwrap` call on that data can return a `BUFFER_UNDERFLOW` status. `BUFFER_UNDERFLOW` implies that the incoming data that the SSLFlowDelegate attempted to decrypt did not have enough bytes to construct a packet out of it. It's then expected that the unwrap call be reattempted by receiving more incoming network data. In its current form, SSLFlowDelegate upon noticing this `BUFFER_UNDERFLOW` status immediately requests more network data so that it can reattempt the decryption and construct application data out of it. This is where the problem resides. When the `BUFFER_UNDERFLOW` state is noticed by SSLFlowDelegate, since the SSLFlowDelegate is flow controlled, it shouldn't eagerly ask for more network data. Instead it should only ask for more network data if the application data subscriber (to whom this decrypted data will be forwarded to by the SSLFlowDelegate), has expressed the desire for any application data. If there's no demand for the application data from the application data subscriber, the SSLFlowDelegate shouldn't demand more network data even if it received a `BUFFER_UNDERFLOW` status when decrypting partial incoming network data. Not h

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
