# JDK-8308606: C2 SuperWord: remove alignment checks when not required

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8308606](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8308606) |
| **PR** | [#14096](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/14096) |
| **Author** | eme64 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-05-23 |
| **Merged** | 2023-06-21 |
| **审查天数** | 29 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +517 / -167 (5 files) |
| **审查者** | eme64, fg1417, pfustc, vnkozlov (4 人) |

## 描述

This change should strictly expand the set of vectorized loops. And this change also makes `SuperWord` conceptually simpler.

As discussed in https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/12350, we should remove the alignment checks when alignment is actually not required (either by the hardware or explicitly asked for with `-XX:+AlignVector`). We did not do it directly in the same task to avoid too many changes of behavior.

This alignment check was originally there instead of a proper dependency checker. Requiring alignments on the packs per memory slice meant that all vector lanes were aligned, and there could be no cross-iteration dependencies that lead to cycles. But this is not general enough (we may for example allow the vector lanes to cross at some point). And we now have proper independence checks in `SuperWord::combine_packs`, as well as the cycle check in `SuperWord::schedule`.

Alignment is nice when we can make it happen, as it ensures that we do not have memory accesses across cache lines. But we should not prevent vectorization just because we cannot align all memory accesses for the same memory slice. As the benchmark shows below, we get a good speedup from vectorizing unaligned memory accesses.

Note: this reduces the `CompileCommand Option Vectorize` flag to now only controlling if we use the `CloneMap` or not. Read more about that in this PR https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/13930. In the benchmarks below you can find some examples that only vectorize with or only vectorize without the `Vectorize` flag. My goal is to eventually try out both approaches and pick the better one, removing the need for the flag entirely (see "**Unifying multiple SuperWord Strategies and beyond**" below).

**Changes to Tests**
I could remove the `CompileCommand Option Vectorize` from `TestDependencyOffsets.java`, which means that those loops now vectorize without the need of the flag.

`LoopArrayIndexComputeTest.java` had a few "negative" tests that expeced that t

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
