# JDK-8308349: missing working directory option for launcher when invoked from shortcuts

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8308349](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8308349) |
| **PR** | [#26707](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/26707) |
| **Author** | alexeysemenyukoracle |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-08-08 |
| **Merged** | 2025-08-12 |
| **审查天数** | 4 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | core-libs/classfile |
| **代码变更** | +344 / -100 (16 files) |
| **审查者** | alexeysemenyukoracle, sashamatveev (2 人) |

## 描述

- Support a new "app-dir" value of `win-shortcut`, `win-menu`, and `linux-shortcut` properties in additional launcher property files.
- Support an optional value of `--win-shortcut`, `--win-menu`, and `--linux-shortcut` CLI options. The valid value is "app-dir".

If a value of any property/CLI option from the above list is set to "app-dir", the startup directory of the corresponding shortcut will be set to the "app" subdirectory of the installation directory.

If a CLI option from the above list doesn't have a value, the startup directory of the corresponding shortcut for the main launcher will be set to the installation directory on Windows and will not be set on Linux. This is the existing behavior; it has not changed.

If a value of a property from the above list evaluates to `true`, the startup directory of the corresponding shortcut for the additional launcher will be set to the installation directory on Windows and will not be set on Linux. This is the existing behavior; it has not changed.

Added test cases to AddLShortcut test implicitly.

Reworked one of the additional launchers in AddLShortcut.test() to allow verification of the working directory when the launcher is invoked through the shortcut in manual tests.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Change requires CSR request [JDK-8364656](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8364656) to be approved
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Warning
&nbsp;⚠️ Found leading lowercase letter in issue title for `8308349: missing working directory option for launcher when invoked from shortcuts`

### Issues
 * [JDK-8308349](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8308349): missing working directory option for launcher when invoked from sho

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
