# JDK-8308995: Update Network IO JFR events to be static mirror events

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8308995](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8308995) |
| **PR** | [#14342](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/14342) |
| **Author** | tprinzing |
| **Created** | 2023-06-06 |
| **Merged** | 2023-09-20 |
| **审查天数** | 106 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.net |
| **代码变更** | +527 / -387 (13 files) |
| **审查者** | AlanBateman, dfuch, egahlin, stuart-marks, tprinzing (5 人) |

## 描述

The socket read/write JFR events currently use instrumentation of java.base code using templates in the jdk.jfr modules. This results in some java.base code residing in the jdk.jfr module which is undesirable.

JDK19 added static support for event classes. The old instrumentor classes should be replaced with mirror events using the static support.

In the java.base module:
Added two new events, jdk.internal.event.SocketReadEvent and jdk.internal.event.SocketWriteEvent.
java.net.Socket and sun.nio.ch.SocketChannelImpl were changed to make use of the new events.

In the jdk.jfr module:
jdk.jfr.events.SocketReadEvent and jdk.jfr.events.SocketWriteEvent were changed to be mirror events.
In the package jdk.jfr.internal.instrument, the classes SocketChannelImplInstrumentor, SocketInputStreamInstrumentor, and SocketOutputStreamInstrumentor were removed. The JDKEvents class was updated to reflect all of those changes.

The existing tests in test/jdk/jdk/jfr/event/io continue to pass with the new implementation:
Passed: jdk/jfr/event/io/TestSocketChannelEvents.java
Passed: jdk/jfr/event/io/TestSocketEvents.java

I added a micro benchmark which measures the overhead of handling the jfr socket events.
test/micro/org/openjdk/bench/java/net/SocketEventOverhead.java.
It needs access the jdk.internal.event package, which is done at runtime with annotations that add the extra arguments.
At compile time the build arguments had to be augmented in make/test/BuildMicrobenchmark.gmk

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8308995](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8308995): Update Network IO JFR events to be static mirror events (**Enhancement** - P4)

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
