# JDK-8266557: assert(SafepointMechanism::local_poll_armed(_handshakee)) failed: Must be

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8266557](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8266557) |
| **PR** | [#3973](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/3973) |
| **Author** | robehn |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-05-11 |
| **Merged** | 2021-06-09 |
| **审查天数** | 29 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P2 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | arch/x86 |
| **代码变更** | +116 / -75 (6 files) |
| **审查者** | dholmes-ora, pchilano, robehn (3 人) |

## 描述

Please consider this change-set which address the issue on hand.

I identified two problems:

- is_locked() uses the _owner field which is unordered (no storestore|storeload) on store-side.
Fixed by leaving the handshakee being processed in queue until completed.
And remove looping, since if ever the queue is empty the handshakee may processed.
If ever want to loop again, we must make sure queue is not empty before removing the processed handshake.
But there is, at this moment, no performance benefit to that, so I chosse the simple, easy to reason about version. (some crazy stress test can see a difference)

Note that I'll do a follow-up and make is_locked() ifdef ASSERT only.

- have_non_self_executable_operation() only provide correct acquire if first in queue matched, if second item matched it could be re-orderd with reading the poll state.
Fixed by adding a loadload.

I could at first reproduce by checking _active_handshaker in update_poll (~1/50) and an increase in the test time by ten.
(real reprod ~1/400 with increased test time)
If we are updating the poll there should not be an active handshaker.
The above fixed the issue.
But after a rebase when I was trying to pin point the issue I could no longer reproduce even without any changes.

Added Atomic store/load to _active_handshaker since it may be concurrently loaded (it may only be used to ask if current thread is active handshaker).

Passes stressing relevant test on aarch64 and t1-7.

Thanks, Robbin

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8266557](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8266557): assert(SafepointMechanism::local_poll_armed(_handshakee)) failed: Must be


### Reviewers
 * [Patricio Chilano Mateo](https://openjdk.java.net/census#pchila

## 变更文件

| 文件 | 状态 | +/- |
|------|------|-----|
| src/hotspot/share/runtime/handshake.cpp | modified | +38/-42 |
| src/hotspot/share/runtime/handshake.hpp | modified | +17/-26 |
| src/hotspot/share/runtime/safepointMechanism.cpp | modified | +2/-1 |
| src/hotspot/share/utilities/filterQueue.hpp | modified | +7/-4 |
| src/hotspot/share/utilities/filterQueue.inline.hpp | modified | +26/-1 |
| test/hotspot/gtest/utilities/test_filterQueue.cpp | modified | +26/-1 |

## 审查讨论

- **dholmes-ora**: Should this just default to the full two-way barrier for atomic r-m-w operations?
- **dholmes-ora**: I still don't understand why we now do a peek here, and then do the pop below (in remove-op), instead of just doing the pop here?
- **dholmes-ora**: Again why not pop here?

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
