# JDK-8252685: APIs that require JavaThread should take JavaThread arguments

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8252685](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8252685) |
| **PR** | [#3877](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/3877) |
| **Author** | dholmes-ora |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-05-05 |
| **Merged** | 2021-05-17 |
| **审查天数** | 12 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | runtime/threading |
| **代码变更** | +507 / -521 (120 files) |
| **审查者** | coleenp, dholmes-ora, iklam, sspitsyn, vnkozlov (5 人) |

## 描述

Our code is littered with API's that take, or manifest, a Thread* and then assert/guarantee that it must be a JavaThread, rather than taking/manifesting a JavaThread in the first place. The main reason for this is that the TRAPS macro, used in relation to exception generation and processing, is declared as "Thread* THREAD". In practice only JavaThreads that can execute Java code can generate arbitrary exceptions, because it requires executing Java code. In other places we can get away with other kinds of threads "throwing" exceptions because they are only pre-allocated instances that require no Java code execution (e.g. OOME), or when executed by a non-JavaThread the code actually by-passes the logic would throw an exception. Such code also eventually clears the exception and reports the OOM by some other means. We have been progressively untangling these code paths and modifying TRAPS/CHECK usage so that only JavaThreads will call TRAPS methods and throw exceptions. Having done that pre-work we are now ready to convert TRAPS to be "JavaThread* THREAD" and that is what this change does. The resulting changes are largely mechanical:

- declarations of "Thread* THREAD" become "JavaThread* THREAD" (where THREAD is needed for exceptions, otherwise THREAD is renamed to current)
- methods that took a Thread* parameter that was always THREAD, now take a JavaThread* param
- Manifestations of Thread::current() become JavaThread::current()
- THREAD->as_Java_thread() becomes just THREAD
- THREAD->is_Java_thread() is reworked so that THREAD is "current"

There are still places where a CompilerThread (which is a JavaThread but may not be able to execute Java code) calls a TRAPS function (primarily where OOME is possible). Fixing that would be a future RFE and may not be possible without reworking a lot of the allocation code paths.

Testing:
 - tiers 1-8 on Linux-x64
 - all builds in tiers 1-4
 - tiers 1-3 on all platforms

Thanks,
David

<!-- Anything below this

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
