# JDK-8307365: JvmtiStressModule hit SIGSEGV in JvmtiEventControllerPrivate::recompute_thread_enabled

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8307365](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8307365) |
| **PR** | [#13949](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/13949) |
| **Author** | pchilano |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-05-12 |
| **Merged** | 2023-05-17 |
| **审查天数** | 5 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | runtime/serviceability |
| **代码变更** | +212 / -8 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | lmesnik, pchilano, sspitsyn (3 人) |

## 描述

The following patch fixes a bug introduced while refactoring the VirtualThreadStart/End events. Specifically, the code to delete the JvmtiThreadState of a terminating vthread was moved before we start the VTMS transition. That allowed said code to run concurrently with recompute_enabled() leading to different crashing modes. I wrote the detailed sequence of events leading to the crash in the bug comments. 

To fix it I moved the cleanup code back after the call to VTMS_unmount_begin(). Now, since the rebinding of the JvmtiThreadState to that of the carrier has to be done after this cleanup code is executed, otherwise we would delete the wrong JvmtiThreadState state, I had to add a boolean argument to VTMS_unmount_begin() to differentiate the last unmount call from the other ones. This is unfortunate since ideally VTMS_unmount_begin() would be oblivious to these two cases as with VTMS_mount_end() where we don't need to check if this is the first mount.
I looked for other ways to solve it instead of the extra boolean argument but wasn't convinced. One way would be to have another JvmtiExport::cleanup_thread() that would handle this case. Another way which is very simple is to move the rebind_to_jvmti_thread_state_of() call to VTMS_unmount_end() instead. But that means during the transition the _jvmti_thread_state field of the carrier would be either null or that of the vthread, unlike today which is always that of the carrier during the transitions. I didn't want to change that behavior in this fix but I can also explore that route.

I tested the patch with the reproducer I attached to the bug, plus I also run tiers1-3 in mach5.

Thanks,
Patricio

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message mu

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
