# JDK-8307559: Add better checking in com/sun/jdi tests for debuggee exiting unexpectedly with an exception

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8307559](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8307559) |
| **PR** | [#13919](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/13919) |
| **Author** | plummercj |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-05-10 |
| **Merged** | 2023-05-11 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-svc |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +31 / -19 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | kevinjwalls, lmesnik (2 人) |

## 描述

In TestScaffold.java we check the debuggee process exitValue, and allow a 0 or a 1. Otherwise the test fails. You get exitValue 1 when the debuggee exits with an exception. Allowing this was necessary because some tests purposely make the debuggee exit with an exception. However, this runs the risk of not detecting a debuggee exception when none was expected.

[JDK-8306758](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8306758) added support for allowing the test to determine which exitValues are acceptable. This means we can now change TestScaffold to by default only allow exitValue 0. Tests that expect an exception can override `TestScaffold.allowedExitValue(int)` to allow (or only expect) an exitValue of 1. There are 2 test that will need updating once TestScaffold by default no longer allows exitValue 1:

- ResumeOneThread.java has a latent virtual thread bug that this PR is exposing. In order to fix [JDK-8283796](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8283796), the debuggee is doing a Thread.setDaemon(false) on the threads it creates. This results in an exception when used on a virtual thread, causing the debuggee to exit with exitValue 1, which previously went undetected. The changes for the CR no longer allow exitValue 1, exposing this bug. The proper fix for [JDK-8283796](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8283796) should have been to instead Thread.join() on the created threads.

- ExceptionEvents.java has some test modes that expect the debuggee to exit with an exception, so `allowedExitValue()` is overridden to expect exitValue 1 instead of 0 for these test modes.

There is also one minor fix needed in TestScaffold when using virtual threads. The virtual thread factory related code includes a catch clause to catch all exceptions. It does this in the code that invokes the virtual thread main method. If any exception is caught, it is saved away. I think the intent was to rethrow it in the main thread just like it would have been thrown if not using the virtual

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
