# JDK-8307683: Loop Predication should not hoist range checks with trap on success projection by negating their condition

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8307683](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8307683) |
| **PR** | [#14156](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/14156) |
| **Author** | chhagedorn |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-05-25 |
| **Merged** | 2023-06-01 |
| **审查天数** | 7 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +252 / -37 (5 files) |
| **审查者** | TobiHartmann, chhagedorn, rwestrel (3 人) |

## 描述

[JDK-4809552](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-4809552) allowed Loop Predication to be applied to `IfNodes` that have a positive value instead of a `LoadRangeNode`:
https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/blob/48d21bd089a3f344ee5407926f8ed2af3734d2b0/src/hotspot/share/opto/loopPredicate.cpp#L854-L862

This, however, is only correct if we have an actual `RangeCheckNode` for an array. The reason for that is that if we hoist a real range check and create a Hoisted Predicate for it, we only need to check the lower and upper bound of all array accesses (i.e. the array access of the first and the last loop iteration). All array accesses in between are implicitly covered and do not need to be checked again. 

But if we face an `IfNode` without a `LoadRangeNode`, we could be comparing anything. We do not have any guarantee that if the first and last loop iteration check succeed that the other loop iteration checks will also succeed. An example of this is shown in the test case `test()`. We wrongly create a Hoisted Range Check Predicate where the lower and upper bound are always true, but for some values of the loop induction variable, the hoisted check would actually fail. We then crash because an added Assertion Predicate exactly performs this failing check (crash with halt). Without any loop splitting (i.e. no Assertion Predicates), we have a wrong execution due to never executing the branch where we increment `iFld2` because we removed it together with the check.

Thanks,
Christian

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8307683](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8307683): Loop Predication should not hoist range checks with trap on success projection by


> **Backported to**: JDK 11u, JDK 17u

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
