# JDK-8307567: Avoid relocating global roots to metaspaceObjs in CDS dump

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8307567](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8307567) |
| **PR** | [#13854](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/13854) |
| **Author** | iklam |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-05-06 |
| **Merged** | 2023-05-16 |
| **审查天数** | 10 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | runtime/cds |
| **代码变更** | +173 / -214 (15 files) |
| **审查者** | calvinccheung, iklam, matias9927 (3 人) |

## 描述

The functions `ArchiveBuilder::relocate_roots()` and `ArchiveBuilder::relocate_vm_classes()` relocate global roots such as `Universe::_typeArrayKlassObjs[]` and `vmClasses::_klasses[]` to point to locations inside the CDS "buffer" space.

As a result, the VM is no longer usable after CDS dumping has finished.

Previously, we tried to save some of the VM states and restore them after CDS dump has finished. See [JDK-8264735](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8264735), which added functions like `FileMapInfo::clone_shared_path_table()`.

However, this is too cumbersome and doesn't cover all cases. The intention of the global root relocation is to make it easy to write the roots using `WriteClosure::do_ptr()`, which could handle only pointers into the "buffer" space. If we call `get_buffered_addr()` inside `WriteClosure::do_ptr()`, then there's no need to modify the global roots.

Notes for reviewers:

- Start with changes in `WriteClosure::do_ptr()`
- Some code in SystemDictionaryShared also needed to call `get_buffered_addr()`
- I added new function `ArchiveBuilder::write_pointer_in_buffer()` to simplify writing pointers into the CDS buffer
-  `ArchiveBuilder::relocate_roots()`, `ArchiveBuilder::relocate_vm_classes()` and `FileMapInfo::clone_shared_path_table()` are removed.
    - I am leaving `CloneDumpTimeClassTable` and `CloneDumpTimeLambdaProxyClassTable` for now. I plan to remove them in a follow up RFE after more testing.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8307567](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8307567): Avoid relocating global roots to metaspaceObjs in CDS dump


### Reviewers
 * [Matias Saavedra Silva](https://openjdk.or

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
