# JDK-8275056: Virtualize G1CardSet containers over heap region 

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8275056](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8275056) |
| **PR** | [#6059](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/6059) |
| **Author** | tschatzl |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-10-21 |
| **Merged** | 2021-11-15 |
| **审查天数** | 25 |
| **版本** | JDK 18 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | gc |
| **代码变更** | +174 / -94 (12 files) |
| **审查者** | albertnetymk, kstefanj, tschatzl (3 人) |

## 描述

Hi all,

can I have reviews for this change that virtualizes `G1CardSet` "regions" over a heap region, allowing the use of multiple "`G1CardSet` card regions" across a single heap region?

I.e. `HeapRegionRemSet`, which is the interface to a region's card set, simply uses multiple indexes for the remembered set of a single source heap region if necessary. E.g. on a 128MB region, heap region 0's cards would be stored as (what I call) "card region" indexes 0..3 as appropriate in its `_card_set`.

When retrieving the values, the appropriate retransformation is done (during `HeapRegionRemSet::iterate_for_merge()`).

Assigning `HeapRegionRemSet` to handle all this multiplexing required some move of the `G1CardSet::iterate_for_merge` method to `HeapRegionRemSet`, which is why there are more changes than expected.

One change I would like to have opinions on is storing the amount of card regions per region into `G1CardSetConfiguration`, maybe it is better to put this into `HeapRegionRemSet` - but I did not want to start a `HeapRegionRemSetConfiguration` (maybe also put the cached values introduced in the `split_card` optimization there as well?).

This allows unlimited actual heap region size. Currently set to 512MB (what we would set ergonomically if on a 1 TB heap), but that's just a random number basically.
Feel free to suggest a different maximum heap region size if any. We could also keep the ergonomics use a smaller heap region size (e.g. 32M as before).

There is also a CSR to look at.

Testing: tier1-5, some perf testing on region sizes up to 512M with slight improvements in specjbb2015 with larger region sizes.

Thanks,
Thomas

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8275056](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
