# JDK-8299546: C2: MulLNode::mul_ring() wrongly returns bottom type due to casting errors with large numbers

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8299546](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8299546) |
| **PR** | [#11907](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/11907) |
| **Author** | chhagedorn |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-01-09 |
| **Merged** | 2023-03-14 |
| **审查天数** | 64 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +1041 / -73 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | chhagedorn, kimbarrett, merykitty, veresov, vnkozlov (5 人) |

## 描述

The current logic in `MulLNode::mul_ring()` casts all `jlong` values of the involved type ranges of a multiplication to `double` in order to catch overflows when multiplying the two type ranges. This works fine for values in the `jlong` range that are not larger than 2<sup>53</sup> or lower than -2<sup>53</sup>. For numbers outside that range, we could experience precision errors because these numbers cannot be represented precisely due to the nature of how doubles are represented with a 52 bit mantissa. For example, the number 2<sup>53</sup> and 2<sup>53</sup> + 1 both have the same `double` representation of 2<sup>53</sup>.

In `MulLNode::mul_ring()`, we could do a multiplication with a `lo` or `hi` value of a type that is larger than  2<sup>53</sup> (or smaller than -2<sup>53</sup>). In this case, we might get a different result compared to doing the same multiplication with `jlong` values (even though there is no overflow/underflow). As a result, we return `TypeLong::LONG` (bottom type) and missed an optimization opportunity (e.g. folding an `If` when using the `MulL` node in the condition etc.).

This was caught by the new verification code added to CCP in [JDK-8257197](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8257197) which checks that after CCP, we should not get a different type anymore when calling `Value()` on a node. In the found fuzzer testcase, we run into the precision problem described above for a `MulL` node and set the type to bottom during CCP (even though there was no actual overflow). Since the type is bottom, we do not re-add the node to the CCP worklist because the premise is that types only go from top to bottom during CCP. Afterwards, an input type of the `MulL` node is updated again in such a way that the previously imprecise `double` multiplication in `mul_ring()` is now exact (by coincidence). We then hit the "missed optimization opportunity" assert added by JDK-8257197.

To fix this problem, I suggest to switch from a `jlong` - > `double

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
