# JDK-8299970: Speed up compiler/arraycopy/TestArrayCopyConjoint.java

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8299970](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8299970) |
| **PR** | [#12475](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/12475) |
| **Author** | eme64 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-02-08 |
| **Merged** | 2023-02-13 |
| **审查天数** | 5 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler |
| **代码变更** | +18 / -28 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | TobiHartmann, chhagedorn, eme64, vnkozlov (4 人) |

## 描述

I lowered the iteration count from `1000_000` (million) down to `30_000` (30k). I also removed a `try-catch` statement that seems to serve no purpose, but may actually prevent us from detecting failures of the test.

Per `@run` statement, I got the runtime down from about `4-4.5 sec` to `1-1.3 sec` (3-4x speedup).

**Details**
I ran the test with `-XX:+PrintCompilation -XX:+PrintInlining -XX:-TieredCompilation -XX:CICompilerCount=1 -Xbatch`, and then analyzed the output with this `cat txt.txt  | sed -n -e "s/.*java.lang.System::\(\w*\).*intrinsic.*/\1/p" | sort | uniq -c`, which gives me the count for the `arraycopy` intrinsification. For `1000_000` and `30_000` iterations I got `336` intrinisifications, so I am not losing any. I also tried to lower the iterations further down to `10_000`, but that did only marginally lower the runtime, to `1 sec`, but with much less intrinsifications, only `144`. So I decided to stay at `30k`.

If this fix does not turn out to be sufficient, we can try an IR test, and trigger compilation of the test methods after a much smaller iteration count for warmup (after all we want to make sure intrinsification happens), and then verify that the intrinsic is in the IR.

**Update**
I applied the same changes to `compiler/arraycopy/TestArrayCopyDisjoint.java`, verified that no intrinsification was lost. Marginal speedup from `1 sec` down to `0.7 sec` per run statement.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8299970](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8299970): Speed up compiler/arraycopy/TestArrayCopyConjoint.java


### Reviewers
 * [Christian Hagedorn](https://openjdk.org/census#chagedorn) (@chhagedorn - **Reviewer**


> **Backported to**: JDK 17u

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
