# JDK-8299259: C2: Div/Mod nodes without zero check could be split through iv phi of loop resulting in SIGFPE

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8299259](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8299259) |
| **PR** | [#11900](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/11900) |
| **Author** | chhagedorn |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-01-09 |
| **Merged** | 2023-01-10 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +203 / -15 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | TobiHartmann, rwestrel, vnkozlov (3 人) |

## 描述

A `Div/Mod` node can have an iv phi of a counted loop as a divisor input which has a type that does not include zero. As a result, the zero check is removed for the `Div/Mod` node. When splitting the `Div/Mod` node through the iv phi with `split_thru_phi()`, one clone ends up on the backedge with the loop increment node as divisor input which can include zero in its type:
```
iv i type: [2..10]
increment type: [0..8] // 0 on last iteration when the loop is exited

for (int i = 10; i > 1; i -= 2) {
     iFld = 10 / i;
}

After split through phi:

div1 = 10/10;
loop:
     iFld =  phi[div1, div2];
     if (i > 1) then exit
     i -= 2; // increment node
     div2 = 10 / i; // On last iteration: 10 / 0
     jump to loop;
}
```
Since we do not have a zero check anymore, the `Div/Mod` node could freely float above the loop-exit check `i > 1` and we crash with a division by zero on the last iteration because the increment node updated the trip-counter to zero and the loop-exit was not taken, yet.

This was originally fixed by [JDK-8248552](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8248552) for integer counted loops by bailing out of `split_thru_phi()` if a type of an input of an iv phi could be zero. However, there are two additional missing cases:
- The same problem applies to long counted loop (triggers since [JDK-8256655](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8256655) which allows iv phis of `LongCountedLoop` to be optimized).
- The original fix for JDK-8248552 only checks if the phi to be split through is an iv phi by checking `counted_loop->phi()`. But we could have a chain `iv phi -> x -> Div/Mod` and already split x through the iv phi in the same split-if pass. In this case, we've created a new phi for merging the clones of `x` and we do not bail out anymore. This is fixed by simply checking if a phi has the counted loop node as control input.

I've also improved the bail out to only check if the backedge type includes zero as the init type is alwa


> **Backported to**: JDK 11u, JDK 17u

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
