# JDK-8310355: Move the stub test from initialize_final_stubs() to test/hotspot/gtest

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8310355](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8310355) |
| **PR** | [#14765](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/14765) |
| **Author** | shqking |
| **组织** | Nvidia |
| **Created** | 2023-07-04 |
| **Merged** | 2023-07-18 |
| **审查天数** | 14 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +153 / -119 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | lmesnik, mseledts, shqking (3 人) |

## 描述

Three groups of runtime routines, i.e. arraycopy, copy and fill, are tested inside function `initialize_final_stubs()`. The test runs every time the debug VM is started.

I think it's a usual convention that it's better not to run functional tests on startup. Hence, this patch proposes to move the stub test under `test/hotspot/gtest`.

It's one copy-paste patch, except the following two minor changes:

1) Remove `ASSERT` condition check, and the gtest case will be run for release build as well.

2) Use the gtest helper `ASSERT_TRUE()` to replace the `assert()`.

Note that the downside is that we won't catch stub implementation errors immediately on startup.

Test:

1) Cross compilations on arm32/s390/ppc/riscv passed.

2) tier1 test passed on Linux/AArch64, Linux/x86_64 and macOS/Apple silicon. Note that hotspot/gtest is run in tier1.

3) VM builds with several different options (e.g., zero build, release build, fastdebug build, client variant, no C1/c2) passed on Linux/AArch64 and Linux/x86_64.

4) I manually injected errors in arraycopy/copy/fill stubs and verified `make test TEST="gtest:StubRoutines"` fails or not. But this check only worked for array fill stub. For the remaining two stubs, VM build (`make images`) failed firstly before running the gtest, because the built VM with these "erroneous" stubs were executed to do something such as loading Java core library code.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8310355](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8310355): Move the stub test from initialize_final_stubs() to test/hotspot/gtest (**Enhancement** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Mikhailo Seledtsov](https://openjdk.org/census#mseled


> **Backported to**: JDK 21u

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
