# JDK-8310369: UTIL_ARG_WITH fails when arg is disabled

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8310369](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8310369) |
| **PR** | [#14558](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/14558) |
| **Author** | erikj79 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-06-20 |
| **Merged** | 2023-06-21 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | infrastructure |
| **模块** | build |
| **代码变更** | +16 / -16 (1 files) |
| **审查者** | vidmik (1 人) |

## 描述

I've recently tried to use UTIL_ARG_WITH for new configure arguments in a project repository and discovered some issues. The project in question may or may not end up in mainline at some point in the future, but I think fixing these general issues in UTIL_ARG_WITH is worth it independent of my specific use case.

For TYPE "directory" the check if the value is a valid directory is supposed to optionally check for files in the CHECK_FOR_FILES list. The default value of this list is ":" (due to autoconf peculiarities) but the check is performed if the value is non empty. This means that if you call UTIL_ARG_WITH with TYPE "directory" and no CHECK_FOR_FILES, it will always fail because there is no file ":" in the given directory. This patch changes the conditional to check for ":" instead of the empty string.

When an optional arg is defined, the validation check is still being performed when the arg has been disabled (--without-arg). This makes it impossible to disable something of for example TYPE "directory" as the directory check will fail. The current configure script in OpenJDK only has macro calls of type "string" and "literal" where this doesn't cause problems, because an empty string as value passes validation. This patch moves the validation so that it's only performed when the arg isn't disabled.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8310369](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8310369): UTIL_ARG_WITH fails when arg is disabled (**Bug** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Mikael Vidstedt](https://openjdk.org/census#mikael) (@vidmik - **Reviewer**)


### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git f

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
