# JDK-8378319: Obsolete the MaxRAM flag

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8378319](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8378319) |
| **PR** | [#29838](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/29838) |
| **Author** | jsikstro |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2026-02-20 |
| **Merged** | 2026-02-24 |
| **审查天数** | 4 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +72 / -87 (10 files) |
| **审查者** | albertnetymk, jsikstro, tschatzl (3 人) |

## 描述

Hello,

This PR obsoletes the MaxRAM flag after being deprecated in JDK26. Removing the flag from the arguments-parsing code is straightforward, but is more complicated in the documentation and several tests using the flag.

For the documentation I've opted to use the term "available memory to the JVM process" consistently instead, which I've repurposed from the now removed description of the MaxRAM flag.

There are several tests using the MaxRAM flag because of its type (uint64_t). For those tests I've replaced it with either `ErrorLogTimeout` or `StringDeduplicationHashSeed`. Since we don't have any "unlimited/unbound" product uint64_t flags, I've used `StringDeduplicationHashSeed` for places requiring an "unlimited/unbound" flag, and made sure that `-XX:+UnlockDiagnosticVMOptions` is present.

There are three jtreg tests that have been using MaxRAM to "simulate" being on a machine with more RAM than might be available and I've had to come up with a new approach for all three.
```
test/hotspot/jtreg/gc/arguments/TestMaxRAMFlags.java (renamed to TestMaxRAMPercentage.java)
test/hotspot/jtreg/gc/arguments/TestUseCompressedOopsFlagsWithUlimit.java
test/hotspot/jtreg/gc/g1/TestRegionAlignment.java
```

Perhaps the most controversial change is for TestMaxRAMPercentage.java (renamed from testMaxRAMFlags.java), which is only run for machines with more RAM than the required maxcoopheapsize + a bit of headroom, so we can test all scenarios.

Testing:
* I've run all tests that I've changed locally in both release and fastdebug on Mac+Linux.
* Oracle's tier1-4

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8378319](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
