# JDK-8269957: facilitate alternate impls of NameTable and Name

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8269957](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8269957) |
| **PR** | [#13282](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/13282) |
| **Author** | archiecobbs |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-04-02 |
| **Merged** | 2023-08-28 |
| **审查天数** | 148 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | tools |
| **代码变更** | +672 / -263 (11 files) |
| **审查者** | ExE-Boss, archiecobbs, jonathan-gibbons, vicente-romero-oracle (4 人) |

## 描述

The `Name.Table` class is used by the compiler to hold unique instances of strings as `Name` objects.

In theory the `Name` superclass supports alternate implementations beyond the two existing implementations (`SharedNameTable` and `UnsharedNameTable`), but its current design presumes that strings are stored as UTF-8 byte arrays, which discourages other approaches.

The goal of this PR is to refactor things to allow for more flexibility in alternate `Name` implementations.

As a simple test case of this idea, it should be relatively simple to implement a `Name.Table` that stores `String`s in a hash table. This patch includes such an example in the new class `StringNameTable`, which can be enabled via the `-XDuseStringTable=true` command line flag.  A simple performance test with this class enabled ([JavacNameTable.java.txt](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/files/11602852/JavacNameTable.java.txt)) shows a 17% speedup.

Changes:
* Remove all byte-oriented methods from the `Name` and `Name.Table` API's, except for those that import/export Modified UTF-8.
* Change the semantics of `Name.subName()` so the offset is a character offset, not a byte offset.
* Consolidate the common UTF-8 machinery of `SharedNameTable` and `UnsharedNameTable` into a new common superclass `Utf8NameTable`.
* Rename `Name.lastIndexOf()` -> `Name.lastIndexOfAscii()` to more accurately reflect its expected behavior.
* Add new `StringNameTable` implementation.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (2 reviews required, with at least 2 [Reviewers](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))

### Issue
 * [JDK-8269957](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8269957): facilitate alternate impls of NameTable and Name (**Bug** - P3)


### Reviewers
 * [Jonathan Gibbons](https://openjdk.or

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
