# JDK-8269897: Shenandoah: Resolve UNKNOWN access strength; where possible

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8269897](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8269897) |
| **PR** | [#4697](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/4697) |
| **Author** | rkennke |
| **组织** | Red Hat |
| **Created** | 2021-07-06 |
| **Merged** | 2021-07-13 |
| **审查天数** | 7 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P2 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | gc/shenandoah |
| **代码变更** | +83 / -67 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | shipilev (1 人) |

## 描述

We've observed test failures in jcstress, see:
https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8269897

We used to treat UNKNOWN reference accesses like weak accesses. UNKNOWN is used for Unsafe, reflection and JNI accesses, where it cannot be determined at compilation-time if we are accessing a regular field or a Reflection.referent field. The rationale for treating UNKNOWN as weak was that if the reference is a regular reference, then the value would be strongly reachable anyway, and only if it is a referent field would reachability matter. However, it turns out that this assumption is wrong: the test shows that a reference that is only weakly reachable can be legitimately written into a field, thus resurrecting the reference, and when that weakly reachable reference is loaded, it would be (wrongly) filtered as NULL.

A fix is to treat UNKNOWN accesses as strong. Accessing Reference.referent via reflection, JNI or Unsafe is Bad Idea anyway.
This test shows the problem with CAS, but I believe it affects all accesses via reflection, JNI, etc.

Testing:
 - [x] the provided jcstress test
 - [x] hotspot_gc_shenandoah
 - [x] tier1

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-8269897](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8269897): Shenandoah: Resolve UNKNOWN access strength, where possible


### Reviewers
 * [Aleksey Shipilev](https://openjdk.java.net/census#shade) (@shipilev - **Reviewer**)


### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk pull/4697/head:pull/4697` \
`$ git checkout pull/4697`

Update a local copy of the PR: \
`$ git checkout pull/4697` \
`$ git pull https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk pull/4697/head`

</details>
<details><summary>Us

## 变更文件

| 文件 | 状态 | +/- |
|------|------|-----|
| src/hotspot/share/gc/shenandoah/shenandoahBarrierSet.hpp | modified | +13/-6 |
| src/hotspot/share/gc/shenandoah/shenandoahBarrierSet.inline.hpp | modified | +66/-57 |
| src/hotspot/share/gc/shenandoah/shenandoahRuntime.cpp | modified | +4/-4 |

## 审查讨论

- **shipilev**: This change looks unnecessary.
- **shipilev**: Shouldn't this be `| ON_UNKNOWN_OOP_REF`? We are doing `resolve_possibly_unknown_oop_ref_strength` later.  In fact, I am not so sure about asserting

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
