# JDK-8336768: Allow captureCallState and critical linker options to be combined

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8336768](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8336768) |
| **PR** | [#22327](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/22327) |
| **Author** | JornVernee |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-11-22 |
| **Merged** | 2024-12-03 |
| **审查天数** | 11 |
| **版本** | JDK 24 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs |
| **代码变更** | +180 / -88 (14 files) |
| **审查者** | JornVernee, mcimadamore, minborg (3 人) |

## 描述

Allow `captureCallState` and `critical(true)` linker options to be combined. This allows passing a Java array to capture call state.

One caveat is that the linker expects the memory to be aligned, which means that at least an `int[]` has to be used (i.e. `byte[]` will no work).

This patch contains two implementations: one for the linkers that use `CallingSequenceBuilder`. That one is quite straight-forward, as we can just mimic what we already do for other memory segment arguments, but also for the capture state segment. i.e. split it into base and offset, and pass that down to our downcall stub. The stub will then add the offset and oop together, and pass use the resulting address to write to.

The other implementation is for the fallback linker. This handles the capture state a little differently, but essentially currently just passes the native address to the back end for the native code to write the captured state into. I've just added another heap base parameter for that capture state segment to the back end, which is then turned into a native address using JNI's `GetPrimitiveArrayCritical`, similarly to what we do for other heap segments.

Testing: `jdk_foreign` test suite.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change requires CSR request [JDK-8345106](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8345106) to be approved
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issues
 * [JDK-8336768](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8336768): Allow captureCallState and critical linker options to be combined (**Enhancement** - P3)
 * [JDK-8345106](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8345106): Allow captureCallState and critical linker options to be combined (**CSR**)


### Reviewers
 * [Maurizio Cimadamore]

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
