# JDK-8287801: Fix test-bugs related to stress flags

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8287801](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8287801) |
| **PR** | [#9186](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/9186) |
| **Author** | eme64 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-06-16 |
| **Merged** | 2022-06-20 |
| **审查天数** | 4 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +30 / -4 (16 files) |
| **审查者** | TobiHartmann, chhagedorn, eme64 (3 人) |

## 描述

I recently ran many tests with additional stress flags. While there were a few bugs I found, most of the issues were test bugs.

I found a list of tests that are problematic with specific stress flags, I adjusted the tests so that they can now be run with the flag. Often I just fix the flag at the default value, so that setting it from the outside does not affect the test.

Below I explain for each test how and why I adjusted the test.

- test/hotspot/jtreg/compiler/arraycopy/TestArrayCopyNoInitDeopt.java
  - Problem Flags: `-XX:+UnlockExperimentalVMOptions -XX:PerMethodSpecTrapLimit=0 -XX:PerMethodTrapLimit=0`
    - Disabling traps by setting limit of traps to zero, means some optimistic optimizations are not made, and can therefore not lead to deoptimization. The test expects deoptimization due to traps, so we need to have them on.
- test/hotspot/jtreg/compiler/c2/cr7200264/TestDriver.java
  - used by TestSSE2IntVect.java and TestSSE4IntVect.java
- test/hotspot/jtreg/compiler/c2/cr7200264/TestSSE2IntVect.java
  - Problem Flags: `-XX:StressLongCountedLoop=2000000`
    - Test checks the IR, and if we convert loops to long loops, some operations will not show up anymore, the test fails. Disable StressLongCountedLoop.
- test/hotspot/jtreg/compiler/c2/cr7200264/TestSSE4IntVect.java
  - See TestSSE2IntVect.java
- test/hotspot/jtreg/compiler/c2/irTests/blackhole/BlackholeStoreStoreEATest.java
  - Problem Flags: `-XX:-UseTLAB`
    - No thread local allocation (TLAB) means IR is changed. Test checks for MemBarStoreStore, which is missing without TLAB. Solution: always have TLAB on.
- test/hotspot/jtreg/compiler/cha/AbstractRootMethod.java
  - Problem Flags: `-XX:+StressMethodHandleLinkerInlining`
    - Messes with recompilation, makes assert fail that expects recompilation. Must disable flag.
- test/hotspot/jtreg/compiler/cha/DefaultRootMethod.java
  - see AbstractRootMethod.java
- test/hotspot/jtreg/compiler/intrinsics/klass/CastNullCheckDroppingsT


> **Backported to**: JDK 17u

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
