# JDK-8287217: C2: PhaseCCP: remove not visited nodes; prevent type inconsistency

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8287217](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8287217) |
| **PR** | [#10250](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/10250) |
| **Author** | eme64 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-09-13 |
| **Merged** | 2022-09-21 |
| **审查天数** | 8 |
| **版本** | JDK 20 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +100 / -21 (5 files) |
| **审查者** | TobiHartmann, chhagedorn, eme64, rwestrel (4 人) |

## 描述

**Context:**
[JDK-8265973](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8265973) Fix in Valhalla repository (Tobias @TobiHartmann  ).
[JDK-8290711](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8290711) Fix in mainline (Roland @rwestrel ).
Tobias' fix is a superset of Rolands. Unfortunately, Tobias gave up his fix once Rolands came up, because they did not have tests that required the superset fix.

We now have such a test, where Rolands fix is not sufficient. But Tobias' fix is the solution. So I ported Tobias' fix to mainline.

**Analysis:**
In this bug, we have two `LoadB` nodes re-pushing themselves to the `igvn.worklist`, without end. This leads to an assert after too many iterations.

`PhaseCCP::analyze` is looking at a post-loop. The loop has a memory access, so there is a `null_check`. The data-part of the loop is connected down to Root via this `null_check`
(`Phi-> CmpP -> Bool -> If -> IfFalse -> Region -> CallStaticJava uncommon_trap -> ... -> Root`).
During `CCP::analyze`, we discover that the memory address is NonNull. So we update the `phase->type(n)` for many of the data-nodes of the loop.

During `PhaseCCP::do_transform`, we now traverse recursively up from the root, visiting all reachable nodes.
When we visit a node, we store the cached `phase->type(n)` into the node, making the node's type consistent.
We traverse up through the `null_check`, through the `uncommon_trap`, and the `If`, to the `Bool` node.
`BoolNode::Value` realizes that we can never have Null, and is subsumed by constant `#int:1` (true).
This means that the data-part of the loop just lost its connection down to Root.
The traversal now also does not reach further than the Bool node which was just subsumed, and hence does not reach the data-part of the loop.
This means we have nodes with inconsistent type.

Summary: CCP disconnects the last path down to root for a data-loop, because it realizes that a `null_check` will never trap. The disconnected state means the types of the data-l

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
