# JDK-8287325: AArch64: fix virtual threads with -XX:UseBranchProtection=pac-ret

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8287325](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8287325) |
| **PR** | [#13322](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/13322) |
| **Author** | shqking |
| **组织** | Nvidia |
| **Created** | 2023-04-04 |
| **Merged** | 2023-09-25 |
| **审查天数** | 174 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | arch/aarch64 |
| **代码变更** | +204 / -142 (23 files) |
| **审查者** | dean-long, shqking, theRealAph (3 人) |

## 描述

### Background

1. PAC-RET branch protection was initially implemented on Linux/AArch64 in JDK-8277204 [1].

2. However, it was broken with the introduction of virtual threads [2], mainly because the continuation freeze/thaw mechanism would trigger stack copying to/from memory, whereas the saved and signed LR on the stack doesn't get re-signed accordingly.

3. PR-9067 [3] tried to implement the re-sign part, but it was not accepted because option "PreserveFramePointer" is always turned on by PAC-RET but this would slow down virtual threads by ~5-20x.

4. As a workaround, JDK-8288023 [4] disables PAC-RET when preview language features are enabled. Note that virtual thread is one preview feature then.

5. Virtual thread will become a permanent feature in JDK-21 [5][6].

### Goal

This patch aims to make PAC-RET compatible with virtual threads.

### Requirements of virtual threads

R-1: Option "PreserveFramePointer" should be turned off. That is, PAC-RET implementation should not rely on frame pointer FP. Otherwise, the fast path in stack copying will never be taken.

R-2: Use some invariant values to stack copying as the modifier, so as to avoid the PAC re-sign for continuation thaw, as the fast path in stack copying doesn't walk the frame.

Note that more details can be found in the discussion [3].

### Investigation

We considered to use (relative) stack pointer SP, thread ID, PACStack [7] and value zero as the candidate modifier.

1. SP: In some scenarios, we need to authenticate the return address in places where the current SP doesn't match the SP on function entry. E.g. see the usage in Runtime1::generate_handle_exception(). Hence, neither absolute nor relative SP works.

2. thread ID (tid): It's invariant to virtual thread, but it's nontrivial to access it from the JIT side. We need 1) firstly resolve the address of current thread (See [8] as an example), and 2) get the tid field in the way like java_lang_Thread::thread_id(). I sup

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
