# JDK-8287906: Rewrite of GitHub Actions (GHA) sanity tests

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8287906](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8287906) |
| **PR** | [#9063](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/9063) |
| **Author** | magicus |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-06-07 |
| **Merged** | 2022-06-14 |
| **审查天数** | 7 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P2 |
| **组件** | infrastructure |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +1878 / -2050 (19 files) |
| **审查者** | dholmes-ora, erikj79, jonathan-gibbons, magicus, mrserb, shipilev, sormuras (7 人) |

## 描述

With project Skara, the ability to run a set of sanity build and test jobs on selected platforms was added. This functionality was driven by `.github/workflows/submit.yml`. This file unfortunately lacks any real structure, and contains a lot of code duplication and redundancy. This has made it hard to add functionality, and new platforms to test, and it has made it even harder to debug issues. (This is hard enough as it is, since we have no direct access to the platforms that GHA runs on.)

Since the GHA tests are important for a large subset of the community, we need to do better. 

## GitHub Actions framework rewrite
 
This is a complete overhaul of the GHA testing framework. I started out trying to just tease the old `submit.yml` apart, trying to de-duplicate code, but I soon realized a much more thorough rework was needed.

### Design description

The principle for the new design was to avoid code duplication, and to improve readability of the code. The latter is extra important since the GHA "language" is very limited, needs a lot of quirks and workarounds, and is probably not well known by many OpenJDK developers. I've strived to find useful layers of abstraction to make the expressions as clear as possible.

Unfortunately, the Workflow/Action YAML language is quite limited. There are two ways to avoid duplication, "local composite actions" and "callable workflows". They both have several limitations:

 * "Callable workflows" can only be used in a single redirection. They are (apparently) inlined into the "calling workflow" at run time, and as such, they are present without having to check out the source code. (Which is a lengthy process.)

 * "Local composite actions" can use other actions, but you must start by checking out the repo.

To use the strength of both kinds of sub-modules, I'm using "callable workflows" from `main.yml` to call `build-<platform>.yml` and `test.yml`. It is not allowed to mix "strategies" (that is, the method of aut

## 变更文件

| 文件 | 状态 | +/- |
|------|------|-----|
| .github/actions/config/action.yml | added | +46/-0 |
| .github/actions/do-build/action.yml | added | +80/-0 |
| .github/actions/get-bootjdk/action.yml | added | +109/-0 |
| .github/actions/get-bundles/action.yml | added | +109/-0 |
| .github/actions/get-gtest/action.yml | added | +54/-0 |
| .github/actions/get-jtreg/action.yml | added | +72/-0 |
| .github/actions/get-msys2/action.yml | added | +44/-0 |
| .github/actions/upload-bundles/action.yml | added | +77/-0 |
| .github/scripts/gen-build-failure-report.sh | added | +51/-0 |
| .github/scripts/gen-test-results.sh | added | +92/-0 |
| .github/scripts/gen-test-summary.sh | added | +69/-0 |
| .github/workflows/build-cross-compile.yml | added | +154/-0 |
| .github/workflows/build-linux.yml | added | +132/-0 |
| .github/workflows/build-macos.yml | added | +114/-0 |
| .github/workflows/build-windows.yml | added | +131/-0 |

> 共 19 个文件

## 审查讨论

- **jonathan-gibbons**: This seems questionable, and adds a very suspect blocking dependency on that website for when we want to update the version of jtreg to be used.
- **jonathan-gibbons**: There are many issues at play in this PR. Can we handle "where to get jtreg" separately from the other issues here: rewriting the actions, and whether
- **magicus**: I reverted to the old method of building jtreg locally, with some changes. I do not attempt to build it before starting all runs, but instead each bui


> **Backported to**: JDK 11u, JDK 17u

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
