# JDK-8356848: Separate Metaspace and GC printing

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8356848](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8356848) |
| **PR** | [#25214](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/25214) |
| **Author** | jsikstro |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-05-13 |
| **Merged** | 2025-05-27 |
| **审查天数** | 14 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | gc |
| **代码变更** | +117 / -88 (14 files) |
| **审查者** | jsikstro, stefank, tstuefe (3 人) |

## 描述

Hello,

The goal of this RFE is to separate Metaspace printing from GC printing. The main reason Metaspace and GC printing is coupled the way it is right now is because historically, the permanent generation (PermGen), which was replaced by Metaspace, was part of the GC heap. Hence, it made sense to also print info about the PermGen when printing the GC heap.

With Metaspace replacing the PermGen, which uses memory that is separate from the GC heap, the coupling has become more loose, raising the question if Metaspace should be printed somewhere else (maybe when printing *other* Metaspace stuff?). A reason to still print Metaspace when printing the heap is that the GC is responsible for unloading classes and nmethods, which means it makes sense to print Metaspace information in connection to when a GC is performed.

To better reflect the current state of the JVM, I propse we make the following changes to separate Metaspace from GC printing:
* Move Metaspace printing from HeapInfoDCmd to MetaspaceDCmd.
* Move Metaspace printing from the "Heap:" section to "Metaspace:" section in vmError.cpp (hs_err files, the VM.info jcmd and -XX:+PrintVMInfoAtExit).
* Use gc+exit instead of gc+heap+exit as tags for the LogTarget during exit printing to reflect that it's not only the heap being printed.
* And the largest change in terms of LOC, separate Metaspace and GC Heap prints in the before/after GC invocation(s) printing. This is also recorded in a ring buffer, which is printed in vmError.cpp.

Testing:
* GHA, Oracle's tier 1-4
* Manual inspection of printed content

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change requires CSR request [JDK-8356938](https://b

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
