# JDK-4718400: Many quantities are held as signed that should be unsigned

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-4718400](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-4718400) |
| **PR** | [#6100](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/6100) |
| **Author** | stefank |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-10-25 |
| **Merged** | 2021-10-27 |
| **审查天数** | 2 |
| **版本** | JDK 18 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +95 / -110 (52 files) |
| **审查者** | coleenp, dholmes-ora, rickard (3 人) |

## 描述

The GC code tends to use the size_t type to describe sizes of memory and objects, while the oopDesc class and *Klasses use int. The unit of the object size is in "words" (8 bytes on 64-bits, 4 bytes on 32-bits), and int variables can currently hold the largest object size in words. However, when/if we start to experiment with larger objects, using int could be limiting. I propose that we convert oopDesc::size to return size_t to describe the "objects size"-in-words quantities, and update calling code to also use size_t. Note that there will still be places in the JVM that expects the size to fit in 4 bytes. I've listed a couple of them below.

I'm reusing this old bug, which more or less covers what this patch does. It would probably be good to update the name of the bug if we decide this patch should be integrated, but I given the age of the RFE, I decided to open the PR with its current name. :)

Comments on the patch:
* There are some JVMCI usages of 'long' (not jlong). It would be good to figure out why that is, and if that's something that should be cleaned out.
* JFR stores field offsets in bytes in 4 bytes variables. This could be a bug. I added an assert.
*  java_lang_Class::set_oop_size/oop_size uses size_t but the stored field is only 4 bytes. Leaving this for future consideration.
* I left array object size calculation as-is for now.

I've run this through tier1-3. I'll run more tiers after initial feedback on this proposal

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed

### Issue
 * [JDK-4718400](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-4718400): Many quantities are held as signed that should be unsigned


### Reviewers
 * [Coleen Phillimore](https://openjdk.java.net/census#coleenp) (@coleenp - **Reviewer**) ⚠️ Review applies to b1765eb3123

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
