# JDK-8244190: JFR: When starting a JVM with -XX:StartFlightRecording; output is written to stdout

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8244190](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8244190) |
| **PR** | [#3417](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/3417) |
| **Author** | egahlin |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-04-09 |
| **Merged** | 2021-04-16 |
| **审查天数** | 7 |
| **版本** | JDK 17 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | runtime/jfr |
| **代码变更** | +181 / -55 (13 files) |
| **审查者** | mgronlun (1 人) |

## 描述

Hi,

Could I have review of a change that makes it possible to silence the output of JFR during startup. That is:

"Started recording 1. No limit specified, using maxsize=250MB as default.

Use jcmd 38045 JFR.dump name=1 filename=FILEPATH to copy recording data to file"

There are severals ways to approach this:

1) Remove the output completely
- Con: Users will think JFR is not working since they are used to see the output
- Con: The PID must be found by other means
- Con: No hint about jcmd, or disk space being used

2) Introduce a flag to silence the output, i.e. -XX:StartFlightRecording:silent=true
- Con: Users must read documentation to find out about the option
- Con: It introduces a second mechanism to control logging
- Pro: Easy to backport. No behavioral change.

3) Write to unified logging with level Info
- Con: Users will think JFR is not working since they are used to see the output
- Con: The PID must be found by other means
- Con: No hint about jcmd, or disk space being used
- Con: Users must read documentation to find out about -Xlog:jfr+startup=info

4) Write to unified logging with level Warning
- Con: Confusing since it is not a warning.
- Pro: Users can see the tag set and turn it off easily using -Xlog:jfr+startup=off/error

5) If -XX:StartFlightRecording has been specified, set jfr+startup=Info temporarily and write with level Info.
- Con: If user has specified -Xlog:jfr+startup=warning it will not take effect.
- Pro: Users can see the tag set and turn it off easily using -Xlog:jfr+startup=off/error

One could try to detect if the user has set the level to  jfr+startup=warning and not change the level to Info in those cases. Unfortunately there is no mechanism in UL to see if a tag set has been touched and one would need to take into account there could be several types of output, i.e. files, that can be touched. It becomes complicated.

I have chosen to implement 5. It's not perfect, but perhaps sufficient fo

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
