# JDK-8296886: Fix various include sort order issues

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8296886](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8296886) |
| **PR** | [#11108](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/11108) |
| **Author** | stefank |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-11-11 |
| **Merged** | 2022-11-24 |
| **审查天数** | 13 |
| **版本** | JDK 20 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | build |
| **代码变更** | +161 / -182 (116 files) |
| **审查者** | dholmes-ora, kimbarrett, stefank, tstuefe (4 人) |

## 描述

The sorted blocks of includes have deteriorated to the point that I felt compelled to clean up some of the issues.

*EDIT*: The below discussion has been deferred out of this PR. Now this only deals with fixing the placement and sorting of includes, plus some surrounding blank lines.

One of the more prevalent issues is that files in src/hotspot/share/include are not properly sorted. There has been some discussion that that was done on purpose, but it just adds another exception to the include rules that don't have any practical purposes, IMHO. It also goes against our written style guide around include files. One argument why it was OK have the files in include/ pushed up to the top of the sorted block, was that the file was included without specifying a directory. That's an argument that contradicts how we treat platform-dependent files, which (unfortunately) often also are specified without a prefixed directory, so I don't think that's a good enough argument, again IMHO. To remove this special case, I've removed the extraneous make file entry to have src/hotspot/share/include in the set of directories to search for headers when compiling HotSpot. Now all the header files in src/hotspot/share/include gets included by specifying the path from src/hotspot/share, just like the other platform-independent headers in HotSpot.

While going over the include headers I've also cleaned up surrounding whitespaces and incorrect include guards.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8296886](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8296886): Fix various include sort order issues


### Reviewers
 * [Kim Barrett](https://openjdk.org/census#kbarrett) (@kimbarrett -

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
