# JDK-8296024: Usage of DirectBuffer::address should be guarded

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8296024](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8296024) |
| **PR** | [#11260](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/11260) |
| **Author** | minborg |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-11-21 |
| **Merged** | 2022-12-06 |
| **审查天数** | 15 |
| **版本** | JDK 20 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs |
| **代码变更** | +638 / -433 (24 files) |
| **审查者** | AlanBateman, ExE-Boss, mcimadamore, minborg (4 人) |

## 描述

This PR proposes the introduction of **guarding** of the use of `DirectBuffer::address` within the JDK. With the introduction of the Foreign Function and Memory access, it is possible to derive Buffer instances that are backed by native memory that, in turn, can be closed asynchronously by the user (and not only via a `Cleaner` when there is no other reference to the `Buffer` object). If another thread is invoking `MemorySession::close` while a thread is doing work using raw addresses, the outcome is undefined. This means the JVM might crash or even worse, silent modification of unrelated memory might occur. 

Design choices in this PR:

There is already a method `MemorySession::whileAlive` that takes a runnable and that will perform the provided action while acquiring the underlying` MemorySession` (if any). However, using this method entailed relatively large changes while converting larger/nested code segments into lambdas. This would also risk introducing lambda capturing. So, instead, a ~~try-with-resources~~ *try-finally* friendly access method was added. This made is more easy to add guarding and did not risk lambda capturing. Also, introducing lambdas in certain fundamental JDK classes might incur bootstrap problems.

The aforementioned ~~TwR~~ TF is using a ~~"session acquisition" that is not used explicitly in the try block itself~~ session used in the *finally* block. ~~This raises a warning that is suppressed using `@SuppressWarnings("try")`. In the future, we might be able to remove these suppressions by using the reserved variable name `_`.~~

In some cases, where is is guaranteed that the backing memory session is non-closeable, we do not have to guard the use of `DirectBuffer::address`. ~~These cases have been documented in the code.~~

On some occasions, a plurality of acquisitions are made. This would never lead to deadlocks as acquisitions are fundamentally concurrent counters and not resources that only one thread can "own".

I have a

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
