# JDK-8296412: Special case infinite loops with unmerged backedges in IdealLoopTree::check_safepts

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8296412](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8296412) |
| **PR** | [#11706](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/11706) |
| **Author** | eme64 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-12-16 |
| **Merged** | 2022-12-19 |
| **审查天数** | 3 |
| **版本** | JDK 20 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +252 / -0 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | TobiHartmann, chhagedorn, eme64, vnkozlov (4 人) |

## 描述

**Context**
During parsing, we insert SafePoints if we jump from higher to lower bci (`maybe_add_safepoint` is called for every if, goto etc).
https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/blob/8c472e481676ed0ef475c4989477d5714880c59e/src/hotspot/share/opto/parse.hpp#L490-L494
Generally, this alligns with backedges: the assumption is that the loop-head sits at the smallest bci of all blocks in the loop. So every jump back to the loop-head goes from higher to lower bci, hence we place a SafePoint just before the jump.

Also: the first `build_loop_tree` may not attach an infinite loop to the loop-tree. If during the same loop-opts-phase we go to `beautify_loops` and it requires us rebuilding the loop-tree (eg because some other loop did `merge_many_backedges`), we call `build_loop_tree` again, and this time around we do detect the infinite loop (it now has a NeverBranch exit, so it is attached because of that).
Afterwards, we call `IdealLoopTree::check_safepts`, which tries to find SafePoints on all backedges. Normally, we have SafePoints on all backedges, just before we go back to the head.

**Problem case**
My jasm fuzzer produced some infinite loops that have the following form:
The loop head is not at the smallest bci (bytecode index) of all blocks in the loop. So the SafePoints are placed somewhere in the body of the loop, just before an if branches into the two backedges. Because this is an infinite loop, it is only attached to the loop-tree in `build_loop_tree` after `beautify_loops`, so the two backedges were not merged.
When we call `IdealLoopTree::check_safepts`, we start with the inner loop, where we find the SafePoint above the if. Then we go to the outer loop. We don't find a SafePoint before we find the inner body. Now we decide to skip the inner body (which implies skipping the SafePoint in the body). The code assumes after skipping the inner loop, we are still in the outer loop. This is not true, because inner and outer loop have the same loop head (the ba

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
