# JDK-8296448: RISC-V: Fix temp usages of heapbase register killed by MacroAssembler::en/decode_klass_not_null

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8296448](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8296448) |
| **PR** | [#11010](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/11010) |
| **Author** | zhengxiaolinX |
| **组织** | Independent |
| **Created** | 2022-11-07 |
| **Merged** | 2022-11-10 |
| **审查天数** | 3 |
| **版本** | JDK 20 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | arch/riscv |
| **代码变更** | +46 / -45 (8 files) |
| **审查者** | RealFYang, yadongw, zhengxiaolinX (3 人) |

## 描述

Please see the JBS issue for more crash details.

To reproduce using a cross-compiled build:
```
# dump one cds-nocoops.jsa
<java> -XX:-UseCompressedOops -XX:+UseCompressedClassPointers -Xshare:dump -Xlog:cds* -version

# reproduce
<java> -XX:-UseCompressedOops -XX:+UseCompressedClassPointers -Xshare:on -XX:-TieredCompilation \
       -Xlog:cds* -Xlog:gc+metaspace=info -jar renaissance-gpl-0.14.1.jar -r 1 movie-lens
```

`MacroAssembler::en/decode_klass_not_null` uses the heapbase register as a temp register in the interpreter, which may kill the in-use value when enabling C2 compilation and `UseCompressedClassPointers` meanwhile disabling `UseCompressedOops`. C1 won't have this issue for the xheapbase is not its allocation candidate. When CDS is enabled, the narrow klass base is mapped to some address like `0x0000000800000000`, so `MacroAssembler::decode_klass_not_null`, which lacks registers, will use `xheapbase` as a temp to load the klass base and kill the register in the interpreter. So adding a `-XX:+DeoptimizeALot` can speedily reproduce the issue.

To solve this, we shall decouple the xheapbase used as a temp register in `MacroAssembler::en/decode_klass_not_null`. AArch64 has advanced instructions so one register is enough to handle the logic. But in RISC-V we require at least two.

This patch introduces another argument `tmp` to related functions to decouple and eliminate such heapbase usages. One thing that deserves noticing is the `cmp_klass` case, which usually gets used at the beginning of a method entry when `t1` is used as ic holder klass and `t0` is occupied there. These positions are special since nearly all registers are usable except ones used for arguments and special purposes (thread register, etc.). I propose to use a call-clobbered `t2` register here, to keep aligning the `i2c2i_adapter` logic[1].

Tested hotspot tier1\~4 on QEMU; jdk tier1\~tier2 and hotspot tier1\~tier2 on my Hifive unmatched board, and the reproducible mov

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
