# JDK-8296999: AArch64: scalar intrinsics for reverse method in Integer and Long

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8296999](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8296999) |
| **PR** | [#11962](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/11962) |
| **Author** | changpeng1997 |
| **Created** | 2023-01-12 |
| **Merged** | 2023-02-07 |
| **审查天数** | 26 |
| **版本** | JDK 21 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | arch/aarch64 |
| **代码变更** | +49 / -9 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | e1iu, nick-arm, theRealAph (3 人) |

## 描述

x86 implemented the scalar intrinsics for reverse() method in
 java.lang.Integer and java.lang.Long. See JDK-8290034 [1].

In this patch, we implement the AArch64 backend part
 using `rbit` intruction [2].

TestReverseBitsVector.java was introduced in [1] to verify the
 IR test results of auto-vectorization and mid-end optimizations.
In this patch, we update it to test AArch64 as well.

Tests:
1: These scalar intrinsics can be covered by existing Jtreg cases,
 e.g. [3][4]. Hence, we don't add new one in this patch.
2: tier1~3 pass on Linux/AArch64 and Linux/x86. There are no new failures.
3: All the vector test cases under the following directories pass on
 128-bit and 256-bit SVE machines.

```
  test/hotspot/jtreg/compiler/vectorapi/
  test/jdk/jdk/incubator/vector/
  test/hotspot/jtreg/compiler/vectorization/
```

4: JMH case
We initially use the JMH case from [1] (i.e.Integers.reverse
 and Longs.reverse) to evaluate the performance uplifts after
enabling these scalar intrinsics. From the data shown below,
 about 5x and 6x performance uplifts can be perceived respectively.

```
Benchmark              (size) Mode  Before      After       Units
Integers.reverse        500   avgt  0.456±0.002 0.080±0.001 us/op
Longs.reverse           500   avgt  0.898±0.009 0.142±0.001 us/op
```

With an in-depth analysis, we notice that the benefit comes from
 auto-vectorization (SLP) improvement. Note that the loops in the
 two benchmarks can be vectorized by SLP. Without the scalar intrinsics,
 the vector version of the Java implementation [5][6] would be generated,
 below is a code snippet of it.

```
and   v17.16b, v16.16b, v18.16b
ushr  v16.4s, v16.4s, #1
and   v16.16b, v16.16b, v18.16b
shl   v17.4s, v17.4s, #1
orr   v16.16b, v17.16b, v16.16b
```

With the introduction of scalar intrinsics, ReverseI and ReverseL
 IR nodes can be created at mid-end. As a result, SLP could generate
 ReverseV node, i.e. generating "rbitv" instruc

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
