# JDK-8286941: Add mask IR for partial vector operations for ARM SVE

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8286941](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8286941) |
| **PR** | [#9037](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/9037) |
| **Author** | XiaohongGong |
| **组织** | ARM |
| **Created** | 2022-06-06 |
| **Merged** | 2022-07-07 |
| **审查天数** | 31 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +1213 / -1251 (19 files) |
| **审查者** | XiaohongGong, eme64, jatin-bhateja, nick-arm, nsjian, vnkozlov (6 人) |

## 描述

VectorAPI SVE backend supports vector operations whose vector length is smaller than the max vector length that the current hardware can support. We call them partial vector operations. For some partial operations like vector load/store and the reductions, we need to generate a mask based on the real vector length and use it to control the operations to make sure the results are correct.

For example, if the user defines an IntVector with 256-bit species, and runs it on a SVE hardware that supports 512-bit as the max vector size, all the 256-bit int vector operations are partial. And a mask that all the higher lanes than the real vector length are set to 0 is generated for some ops.

Currently the mask is generated in the backend that is together with the code generation for each op in the match rule. This will generate many duplicate instructions for operations that have the same vector type. Besides, the mask generation is loop invariant which could be hoisted outside of the loop.

Here is an example for vector load and add reduction inside a loop:
```
  ptrue   p0.s, vl8             ; mask generation
  ld1w    {z16.s}, p0/z, [x14]  ; load vector

  ptrue   p0.s, vl8             ; mask generation
  uaddv   d17, p0, z16.s        ; add reduction
  smov    x14, v17.s[0]
```
As we can see the mask generation code "`ptrue`" is duplicated. To improve it, this patch generates the mask IR and adds it to the partial vector ops before code generation. The duplicate mask generation instructions can be optimized out by gvn and hoisted outside of the loop.

Note that for masked vector operations, there is no need to generate additional mask even though the vector length is smaller than the max vector register size, as the original higher input mask bits have been cleared out.

Here is the performance gain for the 256-bit vector reductions work on an SVE 512-bit system:
```
  Benchmark                  size   Gain
  Byte256Vector.ADDLanes     1024   0.999

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
