# JDK-8286571: java source launcher from a minimal jdk image containing jdk.compiler fails with --enable-preview option

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8286571](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8286571) |
| **PR** | [#8747](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/8747) |
| **Author** | asotona |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-05-17 |
| **Merged** | 2022-06-07 |
| **审查天数** | 21 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | compiler |
| **代码变更** | +39 / -47 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | lahodaj (1 人) |

## 描述

### Problem description
Minimal jdk image created by jlink with the only jdk.compiler module and its dependencies
fails to run java source launcher correctly (for example when --source N is specified).
Failing source launcher is only one the expressions of internal jdk.compiler malfunction, another example is failure to run javac with --release option.

### Root cause
Module jdk.compiler requires zip filesystem (jdk.zipfs module) to parse ct.sym file and so to provide full functionality.
Module jdk.zipfs is not included in the minimal JDK image, because module jdk.compiler does not declare it as "requires" in its module info.

### Alternative patch
The problem can be alternatively resolved by complex code checks in jdk.compiler to provide user with valid error message, however that solution would be just a workaround for jdk.compiler dual functionality (with or without presence of jdk.zipfs module). Compiler functionality without access to ct.sym through jdk.zipfs is very limited. 

### Proposed fix
This patch fixes the problem by explicit declaration of jdk.compiler dependency on jdk.zipfs.
Plus added specific test case.

Please review the patch or raise objections against declaration of jdk.compiler dependent on jdk.zipfs.

Thanks,
Adam

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.java.net/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8286571](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8286571): java source launcher from a minimal jdk image containing jdk.compiler fails with --enable-preview option


### Reviewers
 * [Jan Lahoda](https://openjdk.java.net/census#jlahoda) (@lahodaj - **Reviewer**)


### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
