# JDK-8325252: C2 SuperWord: refactor the packset

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8325252](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8325252) |
| **PR** | [#18276](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18276) |
| **Author** | eme64 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-03-13 |
| **Merged** | 2024-04-02 |
| **审查天数** | 20 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +859 / -648 (6 files) |
| **审查者** | chhagedorn, eme64 (2 人) |

## 描述

I'm refactoring the packset, separating the details of packset-manupulation from the SuperWord algorithm.

Most importantly: I split it into two classes: `PairSet` and `PackSet`.
`combine_pairs_to_longer_packs` converts the first into the second.

I was able to simplify the combining, and remove the pack-sorting.
I now walk "pair-chains" directly with `PairSetIterator`. One such pair-chain is equivalent to a pack.

I moved all the `filter / split` functionality to the `PackSet`, which allows hiding a lot of packset-manipulation from the SuperWord algorithm.

I ran into some issues when I was extending the pairset in `extend_pairset_with_more_pairs_by_following_use_and_def`:
Using the PairSetIterator changed the order of extension, and that messed with the packing heuristic, and quite a few examples did not vectorize, because we would pack up the wrong 2 nodes out of a choice of 4 (e.g. we would pack `ac bd` instead of `ab cd`). Hence, I now still have to keep the insertion order for the pairs, and this basically means we are extending with a BFS order. Maybe this issue can be removed, if I improve the packing heuristic with some look-ahead expansion approach (but that is for another day [JDK-8309908](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8309908)).

But since I already spent some time on some of the packing heuristic (reordering and cost estimate), I did a light refactoring, and added extra tests for MulAddS2I.

More details are described in the annotations in the code.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8325252](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8325252): C2 SuperWord: refactor the packset (**Sub-task** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Chr

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
