# JDK-8325095: C2: bailout message broken: ResourceArea allocated string used after free

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8325095](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8325095) |
| **PR** | [#17710](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/17710) |
| **Author** | eme64 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-02-05 |
| **Merged** | 2024-03-05 |
| **审查天数** | 29 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +123 / -19 (9 files) |
| **审查者** | dean-long, dholmes-ora, eme64, tstuefe, vnkozlov (5 人) |

## 描述

**Problem**
Bailout `failure_reason` strings used to be either `nullptr` or a static string. But with [JDK-8303951](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8303951) I had introduced dynamic strings (e.g. formatted using `stringStream::as_string()`). These dynamic strings were ResourceArea allocated, and have a very limited life-span, i.e. withing the most recent ResourceMark scope. The pointer is passed to `Compile::_failure_reason`, which already might leave that ResourceMark scope, and the pointer is invalid. And then the pointer is further passed to `ciEnv::_failure_reason`. And finally, it even gets passed up to `CompileBroker::invoke_compiler_on_method`. When the string is finally printed for the bailout message, we already left original `ResourceMark` scope, and also the `Compile` and `ciEnv` scopes. The pointer now points to basically random data.

**Solution**
Whenever a string is passed to an outer scope, I make a CHeap copy, and the outer scope is the owner of that copy.
This way every scope is the owner of its own copy, and can allocate and deallocate according to its own strategy safely.

I introduced a utility class `CHeapStringHolder`:
 - `set`: make local copy on CHeap.
 - `clear`: free local copy. We before `set`, and in the destructor. Thus, when the holder goes out of scope, the memory is automatically freed.

We have these 4 scopes:
- `ResourceMark`: It allocates from `ResourcArea`, and deallocation is taken care at the end of the ResourceMark scope.
- `Compile`: We turn the `_failure_reason` from a `char*` into a `CHeapStringHolder`. We set `_failure_reason` while the `ResourceMark` is live.
- `ciEnv`: We turn the `_failure_reason` from a `char*` into a `CHeapStringHolder`. We set `_failure_reason` while `Compile` is live.
- `CompileTask`: We used to just set `failure_reason`, which assumes that the string is static or elsewhere managed. Now I use pattern available in other places of `CompileBroker::invoke_compiler_on_method`: duplicat

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
