# JDK-8325089: jpackage utility creates an "infinite"; undeleteable directory tree

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8325089](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8325089) |
| **PR** | [#21550](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/21550) |
| **Author** | alexeysemenyukoracle |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-10-16 |
| **Merged** | 2024-10-31 |
| **审查天数** | 15 |
| **版本** | JDK 24 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | tools |
| **代码变更** | +834 / -87 (15 files) |
| **审查者** | alexeysemenyukoracle, sashamatveev (2 人) |

## 描述

Make jpackage correctly handle the output directory (`--dest`) that is:
 - a subdirectory of the input directory;
 - the same as the input directory.

Make jpackage correctly handle temp directory (`--temp`) that is:
 - a subdirectory of the input directory.

jpackage will produce an app image or a package in the above directory configurations without running in an infinite loop.

The new test/jdk/tools/jpackage/share/InOutPathTest.java test covers all the above scenarios.

`IOUtils.copyRecursive()` fixed to never run in a recursive loop by building the list of non-recursive file/dir copy commands and executing them outside the recursive directory tree traversal.

src/jdk.jpackage/share/classes/jdk/jpackage/internal/Arguments.java, src/jdk.jpackage/share/classes/jdk/jpackage/internal/DeployParams.java, src/jdk.jpackage/share/classes/jdk/jpackage/internal/StandardBundlerParam.java, test/jdk/tools/jpackage/junit/jdk.jpackage/jdk/jpackage/internal/DeployParamsTest.java files fixed to get rid of `DeployParams.input` and `DeployParams.output` fields and replace them with the new `StandardBundlerParam.OUTPUT_DIR` param.

The above changes altered the logic of configuring the output directory, thus added a new `BasicTest.testNoOutputDir()` test to test jpackage without `--dest` parameter. This required adding new API to test helper classes.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Warning
&nbsp;⚠️ Found leading lowercase letter in issue title for `8325089: jpackage utility creates an "infinite", undeleteable directory tree`

### Issue
 * [JDK-8325089](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8325089): jpackage utility creates an "infinite", undeleteable directory t

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
