# JDK-8325587: Shenandoah: ShenandoahLock should allow blocking in VM

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8325587](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8325587) |
| **PR** | [#17813](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/17813) |
| **Author** | shipilev |
| **组织** | Amazon |
| **Created** | 2024-02-12 |
| **Merged** | 2024-02-21 |
| **审查天数** | 9 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | gc/shenandoah |
| **代码变更** | +66 / -19 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | rkennke, robehn, shipilev (3 人) |

## 描述

`ShenandoahLock` is a spinlock that is supposed to guard heap state. That lock is normally only lightly contended, as threads normally only allocate large TLABs/GCLABs. So we just summarily delegated to `Thread::{SpinAcquire,SpinRelease}`, which spins a bit, and then starts going to sleep/yield dance on contention.

This does not work well when there are lots of threads near the OOM conditions. Then, most of these threads would fail to allocate the TLAB, go for out-of-TLAB alloc, start lock acquisition, and spend _a lot_ of time trying to acquire the lock. The handshake/safepoint would think those threads are running, even when they are actually yielding or sleeping. As seen in bug report, a handshake operation over many such threads could then take hundreds of seconds.

The solution is to notify VM that we are blocking before going for `sleep` or `yield`. This is similar to what other VM code does near such yields. This involves state transitions, so it is only cheap to do near the actual blocking. Protecting the whole lock with VM transition would be very slow.

I also de-uglified bits of adjacent code.

Additional testing:
 - [x] Original Extremem reproducer does not have outliers anymore
 - [x] Linux x86_64 server fastdebug, `hotspot_gc_shenandoah`
 - [x] Linux x86_64 server fastdebug, `all` passes with `-XX:+UseShenandoahGC` (some old failures, but quite a few "timeouts" also disappear)

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8325587](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8325587): Shenandoah: ShenandoahLock should allow blocking in VM (**Bug** - P3)


### Reviewers
 * [Robbin Ehn](https://openjdk.org/census#rehn) (@robehn - **Reviewer**)

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
