# JDK-8325746: Refactor Loop Unswitching code

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8325746](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8325746) |
| **PR** | [#17842](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/17842) |
| **Author** | chhagedorn |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-02-14 |
| **Merged** | 2024-02-28 |
| **审查天数** | 14 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | hotspot |
| **代码变更** | +464 / -183 (6 files) |
| **审查者** | chhagedorn, eme64, vnkozlov (3 人) |

## 描述

To simplify the review of https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/16877, I've decided to split off some code into separate sub-tasks.

This sub-task focuses on the code refactoring done in Loop Unswitching. I've incorporated the feedback from @eme64 at https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/16877 in the proposed changes.

#### Changes
- Adding a more detailed description about the Loop Unswitching optimization itself below the file header.
- Renaming `fast loop` -> `true-path-loop` and `slow loop` -> `false-path-loop` since we don't really know which one is faster and to avoid keeping a mental map of which path goes into which unswitched loop version.
- Creating new classes:
  - `UnswitchedLoopSelector` to create the unswitched loop selector `If` (i.e. the If node that selects at runtime which unswitched loop version is executed) based on the invariant and non-loop-exiting unswitch candidate `If`.
  - `OriginalLoop` to do the actual unswitching (i.e. loop cloning, predicates cloning and fixing the graph to the loop selector `If`).
- Extracting methods in `do_unswitching()` to clean it up further.
- Improving `TraceLoopUnswitching` result printing.
- Adding some shared utility methods.

#### Possible Follow-Up RFEs
There are possible follow-up opportunities to further improve the loop unswitching which, however, would go to far in the context of fixing Assertion Predicates. We could follow up with RFEs to tackle these:
- At some point it might be good to have a dedicated `LoopUnswitching` class to split all the methods off from `PhaseIdealLoop`. This would also avoid noisy "loop_unswitching" prefixes.
- Bailout code in `has_control_dependencies_from_predicates()` is too conservative. I have already some code to improve that in the full fix for Assertion Predicates which I plan to split off and propose separatly.
- `TraceLoopUnswitching` currently only prints the result and if it failed. We might want to improve that in the future to cover more steps to mak

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
