# JDK-8321413: IllegalArgumentException: Code length outside the allowed range while creating a jlink image

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8321413](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8321413) |
| **PR** | [#21022](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/21022) |
| **Author** | slowhog |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-09-16 |
| **Merged** | 2025-01-09 |
| **审查天数** | 115 |
| **版本** | JDK 24 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | tools |
| **代码变更** | +1475 / -768 (5 files) |
| **审查者** | jerboaa, liach, mlchung, slowhog (4 人) |

## 描述

This PR split out large array/set construction into separate factory methods to avoid oversized method trying to construct several of those.

In order to do that, we will need to generate those help methods on demand in the class builder. Here we have two approach, one is for dedup set, which is processed in advance so we can know what methods should be created.

Another is for random set, such as packages, thus we put those request into a queue to amend the class later.

To keep the optimization of caching built value that are references more than once, it was implemented using local vars, which doesn't work well for helper methods. The existing approach to populate local vars doesn't work well with larger scope of split operation, as the slot was allocated on lazily built, but the transfer is captured in advance, this count could mismatch as built time and run time.

So we make this build in advance, and use a static array for values referred more than once.

All the codegen instead of giving index to be loaded, the builder snippet now load the wanted set/array to the operand stack to be consistent.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8321413](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8321413): IllegalArgumentException: Code length outside the allowed range while creating a jlink image (**Bug** - P3)


### Reviewers
 * [Mandy Chung](https://openjdk.org/census#mchung) (@mlchung - **Reviewer**)

### Reviewing
<details><summary>Using <code>git</code></summary>

Checkout this PR locally: \
`$ git fetch https://git.openjdk.org/jdk.git pull/21022/head:pull/21022` \
`$ git checkout pull/21022`

Update a local copy of the PR: \
`$ git checkout pull/21

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
