# JDK-8321139: jlink's compression plugin doesn't handle -c option correctly

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8321139](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8321139) |
| **PR** | [#28359](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/28359) |
| **Author** | ammbra |
| **Created** | 2025-11-17 |
| **Merged** | 2025-12-04 |
| **审查天数** | 17 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | tools |
| **代码变更** | +107 / -26 (6 files) |
| **审查者** | AlanBateman, RogerRiggs, ammbra, jaikiran (4 人) |

## 描述

This PR looks into aligning the behavior and documentation for `--compress` option and plugin of `jlink`:

- When an user provides `-c {0|1|2}` to `jlink`, then the tool should process it as when receiving `--compress={0|1|2}`. As these values are now deprecated, a warning should be issued to the end user.
- When an user provides `-c zip-{0-9}` to `jlink`, then the tool should process it as when receiving `--compress=zip-{0-9}`.
- When no compression level is given, meaning the `jlink` command does not contain either `-c` or `--compress` with a value, the default level selected is `zip-6`.
- The `--compress` option description reflects above behavior and warns that previous compression levels are deprecated to be removed in a future release.
- The `--plugin` option description reflects the implementation behavior and warns that previous compression levels are deprecated to be removed in a future release.

Some implementation details and choices:
- While current `jlink` man page states that the tool supports `-c={0|1|2}`, I inspired myself on how `javac` supports the shortened options https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/25/docs/specs/man/javac.html#options.
- While `-c 0` and `--compress=0` produce the same compression level as of `zip-0`, I preferred not to tie the new compression level to the old value for the option. I believe that this approach would make it easier/cleaner to remove the code for the deprecated values (when their time comes).
- While `-c 2` and `--compress=2` produce the same compression level as of `zip-6`, I preferred not to tie the new compression level to the old value for the option. I believe that this approach would make it easier/cleaner to remove the code for the deprecated values (when their time comes).
- As I didn't affect the actual compression implementation, only the options, I tested only how the options are mapped. The actual set and validation of the options was not affected, hence I didn't change those tests.

<!-

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
