# JDK-8321224: ct.sym for JDK 22 contains references to internal modules

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8321224](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8321224) |
| **PR** | [#16942](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/16942) |
| **Author** | lahodaj |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2023-12-03 |
| **Merged** | 2023-12-05 |
| **审查天数** | 2 |
| **版本** | JDK 22 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | runtime/classloading |
| **代码变更** | +6614 / -20769 (194 files) |
| **审查者** | asotona, jddarcy, lahodaj, magicus, vicente-romero-oracle (5 人) |

## 描述

As part of:
https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/16505

there are new symbol files for JDK 22, and @jddarcy noted the content looks weird.

I was investigating, and found a few problems, some introduced by https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/commit/fc314740e947b2338ab9e4d4fce0c4f52de56c4b, some pre-existing.

Note that https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/commit/fc314740e947b2338ab9e4d4fce0c4f52de56c4b changed the way we generate `ct.sym` - it now contains `.sig` files also for the current JDK, not only for the past versions. Before this patch, `ct.sym` only contained a list of permitted modules for the current JDK, and the classfiles themselves were read from `lib/modules`.

The problems (and their solution) I've attempted to tackle here:
 - since https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/commit/fc314740e947b2338ab9e4d4fce0c4f52de56c4b, the ct.sym accidentally includes all modules for the current release, including non-API/undocumented modules. The proposed solution is to pass the documented modules together with their transitive dependencies as a parameter when constructing ct.sym, then use them to only generate data for these modules.
 - there are tiny differences between the data that are in `ct.sym` and in the `.sym.txt` historical files, mostly around annotations. The `.sym.txt` files contain references to internal annotations (like `@PreviewFeature`), which are stripped or converted before the `.sig` file is written into `ct.sym`. When generating historical data for JDK N, we run `CreateSymbols` on JDK N, reading the JDK N classfiles, and producing `.sym.txt`. This is done using `--release N`, so that we read the correct span of modules. Sadly, since now `--release N` will always use the `.sig` files, we are loosing a little bit of information esp. around the annotations. The proposal here is to use `--release N` to read the list of modules to cover, and `--source N` to read the actual real classfiles from `lib/modules`. This should basically revert the behavior to the p

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
