# JDK-8350013: Add a test for JDK-8150442

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8350013](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8350013) |
| **PR** | [#23825](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/23825) |
| **Author** | alexeysemenyukoracle |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2025-02-27 |
| **Merged** | 2025-03-04 |
| **审查天数** | 5 |
| **版本** | JDK 25 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +1721 / -482 (8 files) |
| **审查者** | alexeysemenyukoracle, sashamatveev (2 人) |

## 描述

Add a test to verify jpackage is using a custom MSI condition blocking package installation depending on the version of Windows where the package installer runs. Support for this MSI condition was added in [JDK-8150442](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8150442).

The test adds an unconditionally failing OS-version MSI condition to the resource directory. MSI installer using this condition should always fail. The exit code of the failed installation would be 1603. Extended error information can be dug in the MSI log file. To make the test work, the following changes to jpackage test lib have been made:
 - Support non-0 exit code from MSI install handler. Support for non-0 exit codes was added to install handlers of all other types too. Added `PackageTest.setExpectedInstallExitCode(int)` method to configure the expected exit code of a package installation;
 - Support using msi log files when MSI and EXE packages get installed, unpacked, or uninstalled. Added `PackageTest.createMsiLog(boolean)` to enable or disable creation of msi log files in a PackageTest instance and `Optional<Path> JPackageCommand.winMsiLogFile()` to access the current log file from the callbacks registered with the PackageTest instance.

Added tests for PackageTest class (PackageTestTest).

Additionally, improved the code in WindowsHelper detecting paths to Start Menu, Desktop, and other common paths. Previously, it relied on reading these paths from the registry. On some machines, required registry keys are not available. The code now will call .NET `Environment.GetFolderPath()` function through powershell if a registry key is missing.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [J

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
