# JDK-8333658: NMT: Use an allocator with 4-byte pointers to save memory in NativeCallStackStorage

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8333658](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8333658) |
| **PR** | [#18979](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18979) |
| **Author** | johan-sjolen |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-04-26 |
| **Merged** | 2024-06-25 |
| **审查天数** | 60 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | runtime/nmt |
| **代码变更** | +339 / -51 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | afshin-zafari, johan-sjolen, tstuefe (3 人) |

## 描述

Hi,

This PR introduces a new allocator, `IndexedFreelistAllocator`. It uses a `GrowableArray` in order to have 4-byte "pointers" to its elements and also works as a freelist as unused slots form a linked list. This allocator cannot shrink its used memory. I'm always open for better names.

We then use this allocator in order to store the `NativeCallStackStorage` hash table. This saves `4 * 4099 = ~16KiB` of memory as each table element is now only 4 bytes. For each stored stack it also saves 4 bytes. The fact that the allocator cannot shrink is fine, we do not ever remove stacks from the storage.

The main point of this is to introduce a pointer-generic experimential API, so I also implemented CHeap and Arena allocators. It's currently placed in NMT, but we might want to move it into utilities. It uses a bit of template-magic, but my IDE (Emacs+clangd) was actually able to figure things out when the types didn't line up correctly etc, so it's not an enemy to IDE help.

It sounded expensive to have the GrowableArray continously realloc its underlying data array, so I did a basic test where we allocate 1 000 000 stacks and push them into NativeCallStackStorage backed by different allocators. This is available in the PR.

The results are as follows on linux-x64-slowdebug:

```
Generate stacks... Done
Time taken with GrowableArray: 8341.240945
Time taken with CHeap: 12189.031318
Time taken with Arena: 8800.703092
Time taken with GrowableArray again: 8295.508829
```

And on linux-x64:

```
Time taken with GrowableArray: 8378.018135
Time taken with CHeap: 12437.347868
Time taken with Arena: 8758.064717
Time taken with GrowableArray again: 8391.076291
```

Obviously, this is a very basic benchmark, but it seems like we're faster than CHeap and Arena for this case.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, wit

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
