# JDK-8322036: Improve help output from the javadoc tool

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8322036](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8322036) |
| **PR** | [#20618](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/20618) |
| **Author** | nizarbenalla |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-08-16 |
| **Merged** | 2024-08-28 |
| **审查天数** | 12 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | tools |
| **代码变更** | +14 / -11 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | jonathan-gibbons, nizarbenalla, pavelrappo (3 人) |

## 描述

Could I please get a review for this small clenup? I updated the `--help` command output to match that of `man javadoc`.

I also noticed that  `--help-extended` was renamed to `--help-extra` at some point but doc-comment was not changed, so I changed it.
I could create a separate issue for it if needed, just to keep a record of it.

The new `javadoc --help` output is the following 

```
javadoc --help
Usage:
    javadoc [options] [packagenames] [sourcefiles] [@files]
where options include:
    @<file>       Read options and filenames from file
    --add-modules <module>(,<module>)*
                  Root modules to resolve in addition to the initial modules,
                  or all modules on the module path if <module> is
                  ALL-MODULE-PATH.
    -bootclasspath <path>
                  Override location of platform class files used for non-modular
                  releases
    -breakiterator
                  Compute first sentence with BreakIterator
    --class-path <path>, -classpath <path>, -cp <path>
                  Specify where to find user class files
    -doclet <class>
                  Generate output via alternate doclet
    -docletpath <path>
                  Specify where to find doclet class files
    --enable-preview
                  Enable preview language features. To be used in conjunction with
                  either -source or --release.
    -encoding <name>
                  Source file encoding name
    -exclude <pkglist>
                  Specify a list of packages to exclude
    --expand-requires (transitive|all)
                  Instructs the tool to expand the set of modules to be
                  documented. By default, only the modules given explicitly on
                  the command line will be documented. A value of "transitive"
                  will additionally include all "requires transitive"
                  dependencies of those modules. A value of "all" will incl

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
