# JDK-8376892: Allow conversion warnings in subsets of the code base

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8376892](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8376892) |
| **PR** | [#29523](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/29523) |
| **Author** | lkorinth |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2026-02-02 |
| **Merged** | 2026-02-24 |
| **审查天数** | 22 |
| **版本** | JDK 26 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | infrastructure |
| **模块** | build |
| **代码变更** | +75 / -5 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | afshin-zafari, erikj79, kimbarrett, lkorinth (4 人) |

## 描述

Allow conversion warnings in subsets of the code base. By allowing this, we can improve the code base in parts, and see that those parts do not regress in the future.

My approach to implement this is by adding support to our make system to recognise and handle "variable packs". A "variable pack" is a list of quoted variable "appendings". It will be picked up by `NamedParamsMacroTemplate` and there recognised by the lack of an assignment operator that is always used when sending variables to macros today. To support sending lists of "variable appendings", the appendings must quote assignment, spaces and quotes. This would be cleanest to implement by hex or base64 encode the string. However, this is extremely hard to do in make, and I prefer not calling the likes of `od` or `base64` to make the code portable and fast.

With this infrastructure I implement a simple recursive utility to find all files matching a pattern in a folder; I then transform that list to variable assignments that will add compiler warnings for those files.

This approach is extremely flexible. I can for example combine many calls to the `ExtendFlags` macro with different source directories and different patterns.

The macro will expand to something like (depending on compiler): `module_file1.cpp_CXXFLAGS+=-Wconversion`
`module_file2.cpp_CXXFLAGS+=-Wconversion`

this can flexibly be combined with other flags to overlap: `module_file2.cpp_CXXFLAGS+=-Wotherflag`
`module_file3.cpp_CXXFLAGS+=-Wotherflag`

(note the overlapping sets of flags `file1 -Wconversion`, `file2 -Wconversion -Wotherflag`, `file3 -Wotherflag`)

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8376892](https://

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
