# JDK-8277529: SIGSEGV in C2 CompilerThread Node::rematerialize() compiling Packet::readUnsignedTrint

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8277529](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8277529) |
| **PR** | [#6670](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/6670) |
| **Author** | chhagedorn |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-12-02 |
| **Merged** | 2021-12-03 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 18 |
| **优先级** | P2 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +182 / -29 (3 files) |
| **审查者** | TobiHartmann, chhagedorn, rwestrel, vnkozlov (4 人) |

## 描述

This bug was found in internal testing for 17.0.2 after the backport of [JDK-8272574](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8272574). The fix rewires a control input of a split load node through a phi to the same control input as the corresponding memory input into the phi node:
https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/blob/e002bfec8cb815b551c9b0f851a8a5b288e8360d/src/hotspot/share/opto/memnode.cpp#L1629-L1637

This can lead to an illegal control input for the new load if `mem->in(i)` is a projection. This situation occurs in the test case: `mem->in(i)` is a projection of an `ArrayCopy` node. Having an `ArrayCopy` node as control input is unexpected and we later fail with an assertion (in product we crash with a segfault).

My initial thought was to just not apply the improved rewiring for memory projections and fall back to the else case on L1636. However, this also does not work as we could then wrongly move a range check out of a loop and creating a cyclic dependency (case described in the [review of JDK-8272574](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/5142)) and reproduced with `test2()` where we hit:
https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/blob/e002bfec8cb815b551c9b0f851a8a5b288e8360d/src/hotspot/share/opto/loopPredicate.cpp#L777-L778

During this analysis I came across the [fix for JDK-8146792](http://hg.openjdk.java.net/jdk9/jdk9/hotspot/rev/2748d975045f) which should actually prevent loop predication if we have a data dependency on the projection into a loop. But this does not seem to work correctly as shown in the test case found for JDK-8272574. In the review of JDK-8272574, it was missed that the actual problem could have been traced back to JDK-8146792 and instead we went for an improvement for loads split through phis to not end up with cases supposed to be fixed by JDK-8146972 (which now also causes other problems). But the root problem is still there to be fixed.

I therefore propose to completely undo the fix for JDK-8272574 for now and go for a fix on top of

## 变更文件

| 文件 | 状态 | +/- |
|------|------|-----|
| src/hotspot/share/opto/loopPredicate.cpp | modified | +47/-21 |
| src/hotspot/share/opto/memnode.cpp | modified | +1/-8 |
| ...hotspot/jtreg/compiler/loopopts/TestDepBetweenLoopAndPredicate.java | added | +134/-0 |

## 审查讨论

- **vnkozlov**: First, the fix is reasonable to me.  My only complain is original code flow. If we do `return false;` for each check we should the same for `is_rang
- **chhagedorn**: Thanks for your review Vladimir! Good point, I changed that into a direct bailout.

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
