# JDK-8277507: Add jlink.debug system property while launching jpackage tests to help diagonize recent intermittent failures

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8277507](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8277507) |
| **PR** | [#6491](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/6491) |
| **Author** | jaikiran |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2021-11-21 |
| **Merged** | 2021-11-23 |
| **审查天数** | 2 |
| **版本** | JDK 18 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | test |
| **代码变更** | +4 / -0 (1 files) |
| **审查者** | sashamatveev (1 人) |

## 描述

Can I please get a review of this change which proposes to add more diagnostics when a failure occurs in the jlink tool during the jpackage tests?

As noted in https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8277507, so far 3 failures have been reported in jpackage tests (across different test cases) with the same underlying cause coming from the jlink tool. Since this failure isn't specific to one or two tests and seems to be keep happening across these tests in `test/jdk/tools/jpackage/`, I decided to set this system property from one central location in the `HelloApp` which gets used by these tests. These failures have only been reported on macos (and specifically aarch64), but the commit here doesn't do any OS name checks, to keep this change simple. Furthermore, looking at the `jdk.tools.jlink.internal.JlinkTask` code, enabling this system property will _not_ generate any additional logs unless there's an exception thrown by the `jlink` tool, in which case it prints the exception stacktrace. So enabling this by default won't end up increasing the log output or flooding the logs.

With this change, I have run the 3 tests noted in those issues locally to make sure this doesn't break anything else. I have also verified manually that enabling this system property does indeed get propagated to the `JlinkTask` and checked the logs to see that the command line does pass it:

> 
> [17:51:07.123] TRACE: exec: Execute [macosx-x86_64-server-release/images/jdk/bin/jpackage --input ./test/input --dest ./test/output --name "Name With Space" --type pkg -J-Djlink.debug=true --main-jar hello.jar --main-class Hello --verbose](15); inherit I/O...
> [17:51:07.364] Building PKG package for Name With Space.
> [17:51:19.191] Command [PID: -1]:
>     jlink --output /var/folders/7v/cnkwrnx154926cr3289w4rd80000gp/T/jdk.jpackage13608930262477285540/images/image-3713034571561734902/Name With Space.app/Contents/runtime/Contents/Home --module-path macosx-x86_64-server-release/images/jdk/

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
