# JDK-8281634: jdeps: java.lang.InternalError: Missing message: err.invalid.filters

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8281634](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8281634) |
| **PR** | [#7455](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/7455) |
| **Author** | jaikiran |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-02-14 |
| **Merged** | 2022-02-15 |
| **审查天数** | 1 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | tools |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.lang |
| **代码变更** | +14 / -9 (2 files) |
| **审查者** | dfuch, mlchung, naotoj (3 人) |

## 描述

Can I please get a review for this change which proposes to fix the issue noted in https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8281634?

The commit introduces the missing `err.invalid.filters` key in the jdeps resource bundle. I have run a simple check to make sure this resource bundle doesn't miss any other `err.` keys. From a simple search, following are the  unique `err.` keys used in the code of jdeps (under `src/jdk.jdeps/share/classes/com/sun/tools/jdeps` directory):
```
err.exception.message
err.invalid.options
err.multirelease.version.associated
err.missing.arg
err.multirelease.jar.malformed
err.option.already.specified
err.missing.dependences
err.module.not.found
err.invalid.path
err.genmoduleinfo.not.jarfile
err.invalid.arg.for.option
err.multirelease.option.notfound
err.filter.not.specified
err.unknown.option
err.command.set
err.invalid.filters
err.genmoduleinfo.unnamed.package
err.option.after.class
```
Apart from the `err.invalid.filters` key which this PR is fixing, none of the other keys are missing from the resource bundle. I haven't updated the resource bundles for Japanese and Chinese languages because I don't know their equivalent values and looking at the commit history of those files, it appears that those changes are done as separate tasks (should a JBS issue be raised for this?)

The existing `test/langtools/tools/jdeps/Options.java` jtreg test has been updated to reproduce the issue and verify this fix.

An important detail about the update to the test is that while working on the update to this test, I realized that the current implementation in the test isn't fully functional. As a result, this test is currently, incorrectly considered as passing. Specifically, the test was missing a `assertTrue` call against the ouput/error content generated by the run of the `jdeps` tool.  This PR adds that assertion.
Once that assertion is added, it started showing up 3 genuine failures. These failures are within that test code:

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
