# JDK-8281548: Add escape analysis tracing flag

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8281548](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8281548) |
| **PR** | [#7428](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/7428) |
| **Author** | JornVernee |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2022-02-10 |
| **Merged** | 2022-03-01 |
| **审查天数** | 19 |
| **版本** | JDK 19 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +141 / -45 (4 files) |
| **审查者** | JornVernee, TobiHartmann, navyxliu, neliasso, vnkozlov (5 人) |

## 描述

Hi,

This PR adds `TraceEscapeAnalysis` as a compiler directive and compile command (but not as global flag). The flag is intended to be used to track down the source of an object's escape, or why it is disqualified from scalar replacement for another reason.

It starts by dumping the inital EA worklist, and then has individual trace messages for when a node's escape state is updated, or when it is marked as not scalar replaceable. I've already succesfully used this to track down a failure to scalar replace an allocation myself (see sample output), so it seemed useful to upstream.

There were also 2 instances where I couldn't quite figure out the reason for a state update from the surrounding code. I've left the reason string as "reason unknown" in those cases, for now. Maybe someone could point out a better reason string for those cases?

<details>
<summary>Sample output (click to unfold)</summary>

The object I'm interested in is represented by node JavaObject(22). From the messages under `+++++ Calculating escapse states and scalar replaceability` it can be traced back like: JavaObject(22) ->LocalVar(46) -> LocalVar(55) -> LocalVar(60) -> escapes as argument to call.

```
+++++ Initial worklist for static jint main.PtrPass.panama_call_as_address(jobject) (ea_inv=0)
JavaObject(0) GlobalEscape(GlobalEscape) NSR [ [ 66 255 248 241 246 ]]   1  Con  ===  0  [[]]  #top
JavaObject(2) GlobalEscape(GlobalEscape) NSR [ [ ]]   88  ConP  ===  0  [[ 162  44  42  154  57  43 ]]  #java/lang/invoke/BoundMethodHandle$Species_L:exact *  Oop:java/lang/invoke/BoundMethodHandle$Species_L:exact * !jvms: NativeMemorySegmentImpl::address @ bci:1 (line 64) PtrPass::panama_call_as_address @ bci:4 (line 47)
JavaObject(3) GlobalEscape(GlobalEscape) NSR [ [ ]]   65  ConP  ===  0  [[ 106  36  41  40  38  39 ]]  #java/lang/invoke/BoundMethodHandle$Species_LLLLL:exact *  Oop:java/lang/invoke/BoundMethodHandle$Species_LLLLL:exact * !jvms: PtrPass::panama_call_as_address @ bci:4

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
