# JDK-8334719: (se) Deferred close of SelectableChannel may result in a Selector doing the final close before concurrent I/O o

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8334719](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8334719) |
| **PR** | [#19879](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/19879) |
| **Author** | jaikiran |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-06-25 |
| **Merged** | 2024-06-27 |
| **审查天数** | 2 |
| **版本** | JDK 23 |
| **优先级** | P3 |
| **组件** | core-libs |
| **模块** | core-libs/java.io |
| **代码变更** | +705 / -0 (7 files) |
| **审查者** | AlanBateman, dfuch, jaikiran (3 人) |

## 描述

Can I please get a review of this change which proposes to fix the issue noted in https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8334719?

Alan's comment in that issue summarizes what this issue is about https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8334719?focusedId=14684071&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels:comment-tabpanel#comment-14684071. As noted there, the deferred close implementation in several of the `SelectableChannel` implementations have a bug where they don't check for in-progress operations on the channel when closing/releasing the underlying resources of the channel. We started noticing this with `DatagramChannel` consistenly, but the issue is applicable for other channel implementations as well. 

The fix for the issue in this PR has been provided by Alan and I've run the necessary tests several thousand times to verify that it fixes the original issue. 

A new jtreg test has been introduced to reproduce the bug and verify the fix. Without the fix, the new test consistently fails for all test method (except for ServerSocketChannel, where it isn't easy to trigger a race). With the fix all tests consistently pass.

A successful test run of the new test takes around 60 seconds. So I've intentionally set a timeout of 4 minutes on the test to allow for some leeway on slow CI systems.

Another round of tier testing with these changes is currently in progress.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8334719](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8334719): (se) Deferred close of SelectableChannel may result in a Selector doing the final close before concurrent I/O on channel has completed (**Bug** - P3)


### Reviewers
 * [Alan Bateman](h


> **Backported to**: JDK 21u

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
