# JDK-8342043: Split Opaque4Node into OpaqueTemplateAssertionPredicateNode and OpaqueNotNullNode

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8342043](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8342043) |
| **PR** | [#21608](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/21608) |
| **Author** | chhagedorn |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-10-21 |
| **Merged** | 2024-10-23 |
| **审查天数** | 2 |
| **版本** | JDK 24 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | arch/x86 |
| **代码变更** | +218 / -171 (18 files) |
| **审查者** | chhagedorn, rwestrel, vnkozlov (3 人) |

## 描述

### Two Uses of `Opaque4`
The `Opaque4` node is currently used for two things:
1. Non-null checks of intrinsics to accompany a cast to non-null where we implicitly know that an object is non-null but C2 does not. This is required to fold control away if the cast becomes top at some point.
2. Template Assertion Predicates

### How to Differentiate between Uses
The only reliable way to differentiate between the two uses is to check if there are `OpaqueLoop*Nodes` above the `Opaque4` node which should only be found for a Template Assertion Predicate. This can be done with the method `assertion_predicate_has_loop_opaque_node()` which follows the inputs of the `Opaque4` recursively.

### Problems by Sharing `Opaque4` Nodes for Two Concepts
This sharing of the `Opaque4` comes with some problems:
- One need to be careful when checking for `Opaque4` nodes if the code can be applied for non-null checks and/or Template Assertion Predicates. Ideally, we should add assertions to exclude the unexpected case (mostly done).
- Walking the graph with `assertion_predicate_has_loop_opaque_node()` has some overhead, especially when checking the negation, we could walk quite some nodes in the worst case.
- There is no real benefit of (re)using `Opaque4` nodes for two concepts and could easily be separated.

### Split `Opaque4` into Two Classes to Separate Uses
Therefore, this patch proposes to split `Opaque4` into a new `OpaqueNonNull` and a `OpaqueTemplateAssertionPredicate` class (the latter accompanies the already split off `OpaqueInitializedAssertionPredicate` class). I went through all the uses and updated them accordingly.

As a consequence, I could turn `assertion_predicate_has_loop_opaque_node()` into a debug only method since it's now only used in assertion code. I additionally removed the second input of the `Opaque4` nodes since these nodes have always eventually been replaced by true.

### Turning `OpaqueTemplateAssertionPredicate` into a Non-Macro Node
T

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
