# JDK-8342387: C2 SuperWord: refactor and improve compiler/loopopts/superword/TestDependencyOffsets.java

## 基本信息

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| **Issue** | [JDK-8342387](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8342387) |
| **PR** | [#21541](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/21541) |
| **Author** | eme64 |
| **组织** | Oracle |
| **Created** | 2024-10-16 |
| **Merged** | 2024-10-24 |
| **审查天数** | 8 |
| **版本** | JDK 24 |
| **优先级** | P4 |
| **组件** | hotspot |
| **模块** | compiler/c2 |
| **代码变更** | +492 / -15487 (1 files) |
| **审查者** | TobiHartmann, chhagedorn, eme64 (3 人) |

## 描述

I want to refactor `TestDependencyOffsets.java` using the `CompileFramework`.

Reasons:
- I soon need to modify the IR rules in this test soon anyway (https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/21521), and so a refactor might be good to do first.
- The generator script used to be a `generator.py`, stored not on `git` but `JBS`. Not great. Now we have it in Java code, and maintenance is easier.
- Since I first wrote that test, I have now introduced the `IRNode.VECTOR_SIZE`. This allows:
  - Simplifying the logic for the IR rules (removed the `IRRange` and `IRBool`, and the `Platform`).
  - Strengthening the rules.
- I was able to add `random` offsets. This means we have better coverage, and do not rely on just hand-crafted values.

I extensively use `String.format` and `StringBuilder`... would be nicer to have string-templates but they don't exist yet.

Recommendation for review: the old file was huge. Finding the new code in the diff can be hard. I would start by only reading the new file.

Ah. And about runtime of the test. On my machine I get this (in ms):
```
Generate: 27
Compile:  5845
Run:      23435
```
Test generation is negligible. 6sec on compilation, 20+sec on execution. I think that is an ok balance, at least we can say that generation and compilation only take about 1/6 of total time - an acceptable overhead I would say.

<!-- Anything below this marker will be automatically updated, please do not edit manually! -->
---------
### Progress
- [x] Change must be properly reviewed (1 review required, with at least 1 [Reviewer](https://openjdk.org/bylaws#reviewer))
- [x] Change must not contain extraneous whitespace
- [x] Commit message must refer to an issue

### Issue
 * [JDK-8342387](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8342387): C2 SuperWord: refactor and improve compiler/loopopts/superword/TestDependencyOffsets.java (**Enhancement** - P4)


### Reviewers
 * [Tobias Hartmann](https://openjdk.org/census#thartmann) (@TobiHartmann - **Reviewer**)

---

> **生成时间**: 2026-03-25
